DND Campaign (1-5)

Main Themes: 
The struggle for power
The road to hell is paved with good intentions 
The past’s effects on the present 


Rough layout of Levels: 
Lvl 1: 
Campaign begins in Timberhold during Liren’s Day, the Festival of Liren in full swing
Players are given a description of the festival. Given the chance to play round with mechanics in constructive ways before getting thrown into the flames. 
Players meet notable people (tbd)
Town Leader
Police Chief
Helpful police
Town fool
Notable business man/woman
Etc
Man in the stockade:
Tukaed Amberbraid
Parents with children lost
Night time comes
Large puppet show recreating the fight between Nethergloom and Liren, with fireworks and dancers
At the crescendo of the show, as Liren is leveling his staff at the Nethergloom puppet to commence the ceremonial burning, someone runs in from the direction of the swallowed swamp commanding everyone to RUN!
This distracts the puppeteers, who miss their shot and send the rocket flying right into The Szafirleśny. This creates a small crach which spiders out from the center, chipping off bits as it goes.
The firework explodes, igniting several small buildings.
The players have a choice, deal with the fires, deal with the person yelling, or deal with the people: 
See materials below
With the conclusion of that encounter, Ben’s character’s mother will emerge after a second to say she cannot find Ben’s character’s sister, only Finley’s note above.
This hopefully spurs ben into recruiting players, and other players joining into the search. 
After making a commotion, ben’s mother will be hushed by the bad guard from before, and the players will be led by the parents to the group of parent’s secret hideout.
There they will meet all those affected by the disappearances, as well as the nice police office from above.
They will be tasked with going into the woods where they think these things are going
They can investigate where the sister went missing
They will be told about the strange haunted house by the bridge that people don’t really go to any more 
Told to be careful, and that no one goes that way. 
Heading into the woods: 
Encounter with difficult terrain 
Encounter with npc
Encounter with battle
Puzzle to get into house
Fun house environment inspired by Hausu (see notes on Painting Ghost) 
Learn more about quest
Etc
FILL THIS IN MORE.










Investigating Disappearance
FILL IN INFO
Clues to find 
People involved
NOTE: Think I want the players to discover that this thing is coming from the swamp, not have it explained to them by the parents. 

Into the swamp:
Some sort of dangerous terrain to start things out, made harder if they are in the dark

Plant: 
A small group has developed a symbiotic relationship with a large carnivorous plant created by Nethergloom ages ago
The group tends to the plant, pruning and feeding, and takes the scraps of what the plant kills.
The plant will try to get the players, which will lead to them fighting the plant. The players will also be attacked by the group, who is trying to protect the plant. 
Communicate this so they can stop fighting, talk, and learn about where they are going. 
REWARD FOR COMMUNICATION: Given key to cellar door, serves as a secret way to get in which isn’t expected. 

Getting to the house: 
Expect some sort of difficulties getting inside, maybe thorny plants or creatures? 
Entrances: 
Locked basement
Front door (expected)
Windows of 2nd story (expected)
Traps: some done for defense, most done to trap the kids who try to leave
Nets
Sleeping darts
Boxes
Locked doors
Etc
Rooms: 
Cells (basement)
Packing room (back)
Living room (trapped)
Kitchen (Trapped)
Cart Garage
Etc
Enemies: 
??
Painting final boss
‘Thrown items
Rewards: 
Necklace of servitude
Cursed painting if they want
A hideout
Clues about what comes next (where to meet, etc)



NETHERGLOOM IDEA: 
Gloom could have been sought out by Finley
Gloom could have rejected to help Finley
Gloom could tell the players information about Finley to get them on his side. Say he is stealing gloom’s power for evil, and if “he can’t have it no one can”. 
Tell exposition on Finley, etc



IDEA FOR FUTURE:
For 6/10, they need to siege Stonegate
One way to do that would be constricting the city by cutting supply lines
If I make 1-5 helping berronar’s bosom and Marthammor, I could give the players an in with the locals 

Idea: 
Characters get stuck somewhere with only one way out
The one way out is some captain opening a door
The captain is stuck in a med bay with a grave illness
They must work to cure this illness with the things they have on hand, so they can escape 

Idea: 
One of the three members of the ancient party turned bad
Swayed by the force attempting to wrench control of The Rippling 
Worked with the force to siege Stonegate 
Felled by the other two members of the party 

Idea:
Based on ‘the dark and the wicked’
 Have a character the players know show up at their door late at night, asking them to come outside
The character is shrouded in darkness and if illuminated the light will reveal that their eyes are milky white 
If the characters come outside, they will get into a tussle 

Idea:
Rat king to fight in the dungeon at Rockwell 
Idea: 
Masked vigilante in Berronar’s Bossom 

Idea: 
Finley made one minion by putting all the predators he could find in one body 



NPC Ideas: 
Beetlejuice
Gordon Ramsay 
Noir Detective 
Carl weezer 

Things to make them familiar with: 
The Rippling 
The Wisps
The World: Eversland 
The region: Stonegate
The towns
Low magic vibes
Talk of more and more strange occurrences. Talk of kids going missing in Timberhold, Berronar’s Bossom, rockwell, and many other small towns. 

Welcome the players to timberhold
Give them each an opportunity to describe:
	Their Character
	Why they are in timberhold
	What they hope to accomplish.


Some Fire Hops:
	You run through the village, passing townspeople flowing in the opposite direction obviously panicked by something you cannot see. The guards are in disarray, struggling to decide whether to help the panicked masses or turn heel and run alongside you. As you push forward, a warm glow peaks above the trees, and grows in intensity with each step you take. A crackle like running water can be heard, but Moradin’s Sprue is still too far off. A fire rages ahead. What do you do as you approach? 

			…

	You burst into a thinly wooded clearing surrounded by homes, storage huts, and other small buildings. You take in your surroundings and see several of these wooden structures and nearby trees in various states of burning. The fire appears to have started where the rocket landed, and the unfortunate house in its path is now a towering inferno. It is lost, but there is hope for the surrounding buildings. 

	You see the fire creeping towards two buildings of note. The first, a storage hut, contains several small piles of rockets like the one shot from Liren’s Staff. Like Mason Brewson said, if those caught fire, this disaster may get even worse. The second building, an Inn called “The Woodcutter’s Lodge”, seems devoid of people, but is right in line of the blaze. 

	As you are taking in your surroundings, the brush at the north end of the clearing rustles. Just beyond a small creek, you see Harren Petri burst from a blackberry bush. A thick, oily substance covers his cloak, face, and fore arms. You watch as he unwraps something pink and muscular from his arm, which seems to cling with thick gooey tendrils. It falls to the ground with a meaty *schlick* and he makes eye contact with you. His eyes grow wide as he exclaims “use the flames! I’ll handle the big one!” and three frog creatures the size of large dogs explode from the thick. What do you do? 

		…
	A series of cracks and crunches washes out from the tree line before several thick-trunk oaks are pushed aside by another frog creature, this one much larger than the three you are currently fighting. This one doesn’t hop, but instead lumbers on its strangely angled hind legs. Harren hangs from the creatures pale lips, and you watch as he is slurped up like a dwarven noodle, his frog cowl falling to the ground. What do you do? 


Mother Frog: 
	The mother frog has AC 13 | 30 HP | 30 Speed 
	Breath Weapon: DC 12 Dex Save | 20/80 | (1d10 + 3 Acid Damage) | Recharges on ⅛ 
Basic Frog: 
	Basic Frog doesn’t have access to the swallow attack 
	Basic Frog HP: 12
	Basic Frog AC: 10
	Basic Frog STR: +1
	Basic Frog Dex: +2


Encounter: 
	9 buildings are in the area. One contains fireworks used for the festival finale show. 2 of the buildings are already on fire, along with many trees and small patches of dry grass.

	Every turn, the fire has a ⅙ chance to spread. The fireworks are 2 spreads from setting alight. The Inn is 3 spreads from setting alight. The fire can spread in both directions simultaneously. The fire currently has 4 charges. The fire’s intensity can be lowered by taking action against the fire and reducing the charges. 

Main House:
4 charges
3 charges with leticia’s ray of frost
Left: 
2 Charges
1 charge with leticia’s chromatic orb
0 charges with simon’s water bucket
Right:
2 Charges

	The frogs are each covered in a thick, slimy substance. This is acidic to the touch, but also highly flammable. The mother frog is capable of shooting a blob of this material, which will catch fire if it lands within 5 ft of an active flame. 

	When 2 frogs are killed, roll a d6. On a <=3, there is a woman trapped under a fallen building. The players can help, direct the guards, to help, etc



A Commotion: 

	Embers smolder all around your feet. <Add some information about the specifics of the fight>. Your faces are covered by soot and slime, but you are alive. As you gather yourself and begin to take stock of what remains of this part of Timberhold, a call from down the path breaks the silence. 

	You watch as Oskar’s Mother, Amber Firefose runs ragged into the clearing. Breathless and scared, she calls out Sannl in all directions. You see clenched in one hand a piece of paper, and when she finally notices Oskar, she runs in his direction.

“Oskar, have you seen Sannl? It’s just like the rest! Sannl”  

<Ben’s Sister’s Name> has gone missing. She has been taken by one of Finley’s minions, who are currently bringing her to the lair. Amber  has the letter describing her leaving. 

People around will begin panicking anew, sending those nearby to search for loved ones, stoking the flames. Harren, sensing more unrest, will command peace be made or there will be consequences. He will cite the letter as more evidence that these kids are probably just going to look for opportunity, and maybe even claim that they are inspired by Liren’s Day. 

A nearby guard, Peakin Landmar, will begin to make peace, telling Harren that he will deal with the upheaval and that Harren should check on Har Barkum. Harren will persist, hopefully inciting the players to help push him away.

With Harren gone, Peakin will invite Ben’s mother to The Woodcutter’s Lodge to discuss the situation. Hopefully Ben will compel the other players to join.





A Meeting:
	The players will be introduced to the parents who have had their kids stolen, as well as the parents and townspeople who are concerned. In the meeting are: 

The Opalbrows (Own the Woodcutter’s Lodge) 
Ridden Blackhold (Blacksmith from Barksbreak - list kid and wife to swamp) 
Peakin Landmar
Ben’s Family
The Deepclangs (Family from Barksbreak who lost kids)

	The group will communicate what has been going on. The Opalbrows and Amberbraids have also lost children under the same circumstances. The group will say that they been planning some kind of search party, but the growing dangers of the nearby woods make them nearly impassable. Furthermore, the guards forbid movement in that direction, citing the growing  dangers imposed by the encroaching swamp.

	If the players volunteer, they will be given the following goods to help their journey: 
2x Minor Healing Potions
Map of the area directly north
Out dated before the swamp began creeping south
Landmarks:
Moradin’s Sprue
Bridge into swamp
Bridgeman’s House 
Cave Entrance (Side Quest)
Troll Spotting (Way out of date)  (Side Quest) 
Barksbreak (plant / side quests) 
10x Rations (Enough for 2 days for each) 
Any weapons / ammo they may need will be provided for free
Rope 
Matches 
1 tent 
Handed a sheet of paper with a code to a safe behind the blacksmith’s painting 

	The group will communicate that, while they are suspicious the kids are traveling north, towards the swamp, they don’t have any hard evidence of this. This will hopefully incite the players to do some investigating. 

Places to investigate: 
Ben’s family tavern
DC 10 Inv Check:
Can find a black, crusted over substance which resembles long-coagulated blood 
Can find the tracks of a giant toad, which are angled into the woods towards the swamp
DC 12 Inv Check:
Can Find another set of foot prints, belonging to a much smaller creature which go into the house 
DC 15 Inv Check: 
Can find a scrap of black cloak, caught on a branch near the house 
DC 20 Inv Check: 
Can find flecks of paint, which do not match any found on the nearby homes
The town drunk / pyrotechnic (Mason Brewson):
Has seen a dark figure emerge from the woods in the direction of the swamp
Waved off due to his drunkenness 
Can point the players to a tunnel the guards don’t appear to know about, which leads to further north 
This is one way to avoid the guards 
The group:
Be told of the old path, now overgrown. 
Told they could ask one of the local hunters to use their hound, but the cost would likely be steep 
Will tell the players they could likely go to barksbreak to search for any clues, as that is one of the first places people came from and said their kids were going missing 


Into the Woods: 
	Getting Past the Guards: 
	The guards routinely patrol the north road out of Timberhold. This is to watch for anything coming from the north, but also to keep the citizens ‘safe’ and prevent them from going too far from the village. 

	Passing the Guards: 
On the night of the Frog Attack: 
3 guards present 
DC 13 Group Stealth Check to just walk through the woods
On the next morning: 
5 guards present
DC 16 Group Stealth check to just walk through the woods
Talking with the drunk:
Will reveal secret tunnel the players can pass through 
The players will need to succeed on a DC 14 Investivation check in order to find the tunnel 
Causing a distraction
Bribing a guard 
Etc


Terrain Features:
Quicksand Pits
Thick Mud
Deep Water
Poisonous Plants 
Dense Fog
Overgrown Vines and Thorns
Sudden Drops 
Unstable Ground 

	Specific Obstacle on their way towards the house: 
Quicksand!
As they walk, I will randomly roll a d5. The number rolled will be the number of players who have found themselves in quick sand. 
ROLL INITIATIVE
You sink in the quicksand 2ft/round, at the end of each of your turns 
Players can hold their breath a number of minutes equal to their 1+Con Mod
After that time has run out, the player can survive a number of rounds = Con Mod
After that, their HP drops to 0 and they must start making death saves 
The players must think quick to free themselves
The sand pulls harder the deeper in they have sunk, so 1=DC12, 2=DC14, etc
Any vines checked will have a roll (1d4):
Swamproot
Blackvine 
Bloodthorn
Snagroot 


OUTLINE:
SEE TIMBERHOLD / BARKSBREAK

Side Quest - Cave:
    The players are given a map of the forest which shows a cave. This map is years out of date, and doesn't show that the cave is overgrown and flooded. 

    To enter, the players will need to first identify where the cave entrance is. They will find it overgrown with purple bulbous flowers. If touched, the flowers will release a mist covering a 5ft area. Anyone caught in the area needs to roll a DC 13 con saving throw or be poisoned 

    Inside, the players will discover the cave flooded. Swimming in the water are 3 giant leeches 

    The underwater path is only 15 ft, but the leeches will make it much more difficult to navigate. On the other side are 4 giant crabs 

    When the creatures are killed, they will find 
A bag of gemstones worth 20gp in one of the crabs nests
The bad has "alder swift blade" embroidered on the side 

Side Quest - Troll 
    The troll's ghost lingers in the area due to his unfulfilled desire to complete his last meal in his mother's pot. Cooking was an important ritual for the troll, and his stew held sentimental value. He was known among his troll kin for his exceptional culinary skills, and his final stew was meant to be a symbol of love and appreciation for his mother. The troll's ghost seeks closure and wishes to ensure that the hag does not desecrate his mother's pot or use it for nefarious purposes.

	The hag, named Malgara, is an evil and cunning creature who delights in brewing dark potions and concoctions. She has set up her lair in the troll's house, taking advantage of its seclusion and the troll's demise. Malgara is particularly interested in using the enchanted properties of the troll's mother's pot to enhance the potency of her brews. The pot possesses a unique magical aura, and its addition to her potion-making process promises to amplify the hag's dark powers, granting her increased control over those who consume her concoctions.

If help Hag: 
Hag’s Shop:
Potions of Poison: Small vials containing deadly poisons that could be used in combat or for nefarious purposes.
Hexed Trinkets: Small, enchanted items that have various effects, such as causing bad luck or cursing enemies.
Goblin-made Weapons: Rusty but surprisingly effective weapons crafted by enslaved goblins under the hag's control.
If help troll ghost: 
Limitless Cauldron: 
A cauldron which will infinitely replenish any food stew added to it 
The stew can be emptied at a rate of 2 cauldron / minute




The House: 
See ‘the fish house’ google doc for all information

Meeting Finley: 
A note in the fish house reads: “Your contributions are appreciated. Meet at the bridge at noon”. This should prompt the players to go see. 
If so, there will be plenty of places to scope out, including a small alcove next to the bridge, and plenty of tree cover to watch from the distance.
Finley will come accompanied by two hulking monstrosities of his own creation. 
If the house has collapsed, Finley will notice and become unsure. 
Unless something happens, Finley will almost immediately take to the woods, not prompting the players to engage further.
FINLEY’S voice is high pitched and effeminate. Will reduce if lich’s curse is broken. 



Returning to Timberhold:
	At this point the players have momentarily finished up their actions in the north Emeraldleaf woods.  In the woods turning swamp, the players did a few notable things: 
Met cliff
Helped cliff with his crocagator problems 
Slept in cliff’s house (x2)
Met the bullywug tribe and applied their secretions 
Raided the bridgeman’s house
Found items:
Staff of create water
Fishing rod
Bridgeman’s journal 
Defeated Mulgogi 
Been to the bridge into the swallowed swamp and saw / heard Finley 

	At this point, the following quest threads are unresolved:
Helping Bullywug’s wife
Finding blacksmith’s hedge trimmer
Investigating mayor’s house
Investigating dripecho cave
Investigating troll sighting 

<insert what else they did before getting back to timberhold> 

Timberhold in Disarray:
	As the players return from the North Emeraldleaf woods, they feel another energy in the excited air of Timberhold. Where once floated lightly feelings of gaiety and celebration there now sits heavy the foreboding of concern and upheaval. 

	After watching 5 more Timberhold do-gooders descend into the swallowed woods, Forulim Opalbrow (wife) decided that enough was enough. She and her husband, Harmben, gathered some members of those families who had also lost people. Their ranks are as follows:

Resistance Ranks: 
Leader: Forulim Opalbrow
Partner: Harmben Opalbrow 
Follower: Oskar’s Dad (Rumnaheim)
Follower: Ridden Blackhold

NPC’s to remember: 
Peakin Landmar (bogwatch sympathizer, young dwarf)
Mason Brewson  (town drunk / pyro)
Oskar’s Mom 
Harren Petri (bogwatch leader)

Arriving In Timberhold:
If the players arrive normally, they will not be noticed as the town will be greatly preoccupied. They will also come upon the town center, where Forulim Opalbrow is galvanizing her crowd. 
The players may stick to the outskirts of the town to avoid detection. If so, roll on this table:
Startled wildlife: A small animal scurries away.
Fragrant flower bed: Aromatic flowers fill the air with their scent.
Chirping birds: Birds sing in a tree.
Hidden herb garden: Aromatic plants grow in a secret garden.
Sudden rain shower: A light rain falls.
Fluttering butterflies: A swarm of butterflies dances in the air.
Busy bees: Bees buzz around a hive.
Mischievous squirrel: A squirrel scampers across the rooftops.
Playful puppies: Puppies tumble around in a yard.
Tranquil pond: A clear pond reflects the trees around it.
Main Path 1: Meeting Forulim:
If the players join the crowd, Forulim Opalbrow will deliver a passionate speech about taking action against Har Barkem and demanding answers about the missing children. She calls for unity and a plan to confront the chieftain at his mansion. The players can choose to align themselves with Forulim and her cause.
She may notice the players in the crowd if she looks or they are noticeable.
She will call them on stage and hail them as heroes. 
She will ask for stories from their time in the swamp, and will likely only grow more worried with the news. 
She will demand the characters help them with their cause of confronting Har. She will acknowledge that the players want what is best for this town or they would not have done what they did and sacrificed all they had. She will implore onto the players that what is best for the town is to figure out what is going on once and for all. 
Froulim’s goals are such: 
1) Discover why no help is coming from Stonegate
2) Overthrow Timberhold’s leadership if necessary 
If the players turn her down, some of the crowd (d20 - how well they do) will turn against them 
If the players agree, then froulim will start making plans to approach Har Barkem’s manor and demand answers, with the players help
She, along with her compatriots, will take to the Woodcutter’s Lodge to make these plans 
Main Path 2: Meeting Peakin Landmar:
If seen near the crowd and isolated, Peakin Landmar will explain how insanely glad he is to see the party, and how astonished he is that they have returned alive!
He will explain that this is all because of the party running into the woods in service of the town. 
He will also say that he has something he thinks the party wants to see : Liren’s Map
SEE WORLD LORE
Main Path 3: Confronting Barkem:
Har is holed up in his manor, at the top of Meadowkin Ridge, a hill on the edge of town. 
Guard Activity: 
The guards have been doubled. Five guards now stand by the front door. Two guards stand by the back door. 
The increased guard-coverage has made their watch more effective, but they are starting to tire due to the inability to shift change. This gives them disadvantage to social checks. 
Har’s Activity: 
Har is in his study, drafting letters to stonegate describing the current situation and requesting help keeping the peace. 
Har is also perturbed, as the automaton sent to him by Stonegate has gone missing. 
Har’s Confrontation: 
Har is an older dwarf, who is not capable and struggles to move. 
His memory is also failing. He will lose his place, forget where he was going. However, he clings to his power, and will 
Har will try to downplay and mitigate the player’s concerns. 
He will start by insisting that Timberhold’s troubles are only temporary, and will continue his insistence that that help is on its way.
When pressed, Har will acquiesce and tell the players that he has asked for help, but he was told Stonegate is having troubles of their own and that their own thinly spread peacekeeping force cannot be diverted from the city
If pressed further, Har will reluctantly reveal that he has been sent various magical artifacts for his silence.
At this point, he will try to squirrel his way out of the problem by switching sides and agreeing that he should have been doing more. He will swear up and down that he will do better, and will send an official envoy to the capital to demand help. 
If confronted with the idea of switching leadership, Har will become distant and argumentative, saying that no one can run the village as well as he. This is the first and only time that things have gone sour. Timberhold has existed in relative prosperity until fairly recently. 
Some other threads: 
Mason Brewson:
Mason can be found drinking at the Woodcutter’s Lodge when the players arrive with Froulim and the rest of her inner circle.
Mason is drinking with former Barksbreak blacksmith, Ridden Blackhold, discussing those they have lost and generally feeling bad for themselves. 
Feeling embarrassed about the firework mishap, Mason could approach the players with a proposition: a distraction. 
He could provide a controlled explosion to draw attention away from the Manor, drawing some guards. 
However, there is a problem. Mason doesn’t have access to any of his explosives. They are all stashed in his workshop, which he is unable to get to. The guards are focused on Har and Mason’s workshop is being watched by a local group of thugs, who try to shake Mason down for money. 
These thugs can be intimidated, persuaded, paid off, scared, etc 
If the players enlist Mason’s help, he will likely open up about his reasons for drinking: he and his wife met in Stonegate, while living there and serving the defense corps. His wife was a far more talented Pyro than he, and was working on a powerful weapon for the empire. Mason helped and encouraged her to take more risks, ultimately leading to her death. He tried to scrape for power, thinking he could help, but learned that you can’t bring about peace with more suffering, and regrets it every day.
The players will need to tell Mason when and how to make the explosion! 
The Amberbraids: 
The amberbraids are ecstatic to find the return of their son Thris, their only child and heir to their logging fortune. 
As reward for returning their child, the amberbraids will give the players: 
AMBERBRAID REWARD:
50gp
2 horses for easier travel
Three Spell Scrolls written in draconic which they have not deciphered: SCROLLS WRITTEN IN UNDERCOMMON
Misty Step (empy)
Locate Object  (lik)
Bestow Curse  (Lik)
Upon players return to timberhold, the Amberbraids will also offer one of their two log-processing facilities as a base for the players. 


 


Froulim’s Speech: 
"Good people of Timberhold! Today we stand at a crossroads, faced with adversity and a growing darkness that threatens not just our town, but our children and our future! Our young ones have been taken, and while some have returned, thanks to courageous hearts among us, there are more still missing, out there, scared and alone.

We are not wanderers lost in these woods, we are a community, strong and united, with roots deep and branches strong. Our strength lies within each one of us, within our collective spirit, within Timberhold itself. Yet, despite the danger lurking at our doorstep, despite the loss of loved ones and Barksbreak turned to ruin, our pleas for help fall on deaf ears. We're greeted with silence when we ask for assistance.

Now more than ever, we need strong leaders, leaders who will not hide away in their comfortable mansions when crisis strikes, but who will stand with us, shoulder to shoulder, ready to face whatever comes our way. Those who believe their authority grants them the privilege of distancing themselves from the hardships facing our community, are greatly mistaken.

We don’t deserve leaders who shy away from their responsibilities. We deserve passion and courage in our leadership. Things cannot continue as they are. If our current leadership won’t act, then it is time to reassess who deserves to lead Timberhold. If Stonegate won’t help us, then we will rise and fend for ourselves!

Remember, we are not helpless; we are a community. Together, we are unstoppable. We will reclaim our village, our homes, and our lives. Whatever it takes to keep our children safe and our town thriving. This is our charge, our mission. And it starts right here, today, with us!"


Leaving Timberhold: 
The players broke into Har’s manor and charmed him and his guard. 
The players learned about Har’s involvement with stonegate. 
They either believe he is liable due to his dementia, his letters aren’t making it to stonegate, or the conspiracy goes all the way to the top
Ultimately, they do not believe har is fit to rule. 
They have given his unsent letter, demanding assistance and an end to their gift-giving relationship, to Forulim
When the players leave the following will happen: 
Harren will be fired as Head Toad of the bog watch. Har can’t believe that the party could invade his space under his watch, and he no longer feels Harren is fit to lead. 
Peakin Landmar will gain ranks, as he seemingly is a respected member of the bog watch
Forulim, using the letter, will continue to galvanize the people of timberhold and will even turn Harren to their cause. 
NOTE: This should incentivize the players, upon return, to remove Har from leadership 

Sneaking out of Town: 
With Har’s charm worn off and the guards on the look for the party, it is a challenge to get out of town. 
As the players head out, have them roll a DC 12 history check. On a success, they know the approximate location of the garage. 
The players will make their way out of town in segments. There are 10 segments to go through. 
Before the players start their journey, have the players make a group stealth check. Anything above 10 is a success. 
Each segment, roll a d8. On a 1 through 2+number of successes, nothing happens. Otherwise roll on the table below for an event. 
Some rolls have fail conditions. If 3 such conditions are met, then the guards will notice the players and initiative will roll. 

LEAVING TIMBERHOLD ROLL TABLE: 
1. The party is spotted by a group of town teens who recognize them. They eagerly approach, asking for autographs and wanting to hear tales of their adventures. The players can choose to engage with them or try to slip away unnoticed.

2. A guard dog barks loudly from a nearby backyard, drawing the attention of the guards. The players must quickly find a way to distract or calm the dog to avoid being discovered.

3. A guard is patrolling the path ahead, walking towards the party. The players must find a hiding spot or come up with a clever disguise to avoid being recognized.

4. As the players turn a corner, they come across a group of townspeople who are sympathetic to their cause. They offer to create a diversion by staging a fight to distract the guards. The players can choose to take advantage of this opportunity or proceed cautiously.

5. The party accidentally sets off a noisy trap, causing a commotion and alerting the guards. They must think quickly to either disarm or bypass the trap before they are caught.

6. A loud crash is heard nearby as a cart overturns, spilling its contents all over the street. The players can help the merchant who owns the cart, causing a distraction in the process, or use the chaos to slip away unnoticed.

7. A friendly shopkeeper offers the players a hiding spot in their storage room until the guards pass by. The players must navigate through the cramped and cluttered room without causing any damage or making noise.

8. A stray cat starts following the party, meowing loudly and attracting unwanted attention. The players must find a way to either shoo away the cat or keep it quiet to avoid being discovered.

9. The players come across a street performer putting on a show. They can choose to watch the performance and blend in with the crowd or use it as a distraction to slip away unnoticed.

10. A vendor selling fruits and vegetables accidentally drops their entire basket, causing the produce to scatter across the road. The players can help gather the scattered items, keeping a low profile, or use the chaos to their advantage.

11. The party encounters a group of children playing a game of hide-and-seek. They plead with the players to help them find the last hider before the guards catch them. The players can choose to assist, causing a distraction, or continue on their way.

12. As the players approach a crossroad, they notice a friendly beggar who recognizes them and asks for change. If angered, the beggar will alert the guards. 

Acquiring the Royal Carriage: 
Details: 
The carriage is stored in the Royal Garage at the South East corner of Timberhold. 
The carriage must be manned by 2 horses and a driver due to its size and opulence. 
Charisma Route: 
The players must manipulate the one guard on duty into letting them have the carriage. 
Stealth Route: 
The players could enter through the back, as this is not a well-guarded facility. 
Combat Route: 
If the players fight, the guard is a dnd 5e guard 
Distraction 
etc


Royal Timberhold Carriage: 

CARRIAGE HP: 150 -> 146 -> 150 -> 

Traveling to Marthommar: 
The foundation of the province is shaking for the first time in centuries. Roads walked safely for years are now unsafe, beset by all matters arcane and mundane. As the players travel, each day roll a D3. On a 1, roll on the random event table below. 

1. Bandit Ambush:
As your party meanders down the South road out of Timberhold, the pristine silence of the woods is abruptly interrupted. A loud, unceremonious burp echoes through the fog ahead, followed by stifled guffaws. A gangly, visibly intoxicated gnome leaps out from behind a nearby clump of overgrown vines and thorns.

"Corny’s the name!" The gnome slurs, comically brandishing a sword, "And I’m demandin' ya cough all your shinies! Or else!" Three additional figures lie in wait. A DC 12 (Perception) check reveals the ambush. A DC 14 (Insight) check reveals that Corny is faking his intoxication. 

Challenge: Defeat the bandit ambush and protect the royal carriage.
DC: 12 (Perception) to detect the ambush.
Loot: Each bandit carries a pouch containing 5-10 gp.










2. Wandering Merchant: 
​​A friendly and chatty dragonborn wandering merchant named Magros Goldenscale has set up a small roadside stall between Timberhold and Marthommar. Magros, larger than most of his kind, has a radiant golden scale color that can be spotted from a distance. His stall, a makeshift setup from his rather substantial caravan, is stocked with various goods. He offers food, supplies, and minor equipment at fair prices; his homemade dried meadfruit jerky is particularly well-regarded.

Magros, with his jovial demeanor and hearty laugh, might well have useful information about the road ahead, given his frequent travels. He is also known to have connections in Marthommar and might be a valuable source of rumors or inside knowledge about the city.

Knowledge: 
The University at Marthommar is known to practice and encourage deep magic, making it a place of high academic and magical significance.



Connections: 
Aluriel Silvertome - Head Librarian at the university, an old family friend. They send rare tomes and books to each other.
(Found for DC 15 persuasion) Tanzor Quickfingers - A notorious guild thief who owes Magros a favor. This connection may be useful for hard-to-get items or under-the-radar inquiries. 

Inventory: 
1. Homemade Dried Meadfruit Jerky (1gp/packet)
2. Healing Potions (Minor - 15gp, Regular - 50gp)
3. Adventure Rations (5gp/day set)
4. Basic Armor (Leather Armors – 10gp, Chainmail - 75gp)
5. Weapons (Dagger - 2gp, Shortsword - 10gp, Longsword - 15gp)
6. Rope (1gp/50ft)
7. Grappling Hooks (2gp each)
8. Arrows (1gp for a bundle of 20)
9. Ornate Trinket Box (20gp each)
10. Local Brew - "Dragon's Breath" Fire Ale (5gp/bottle)

3) Mysterious Fog: 
As you walk, a diffuse mist begins to condense. Looking ahead, you can see the fog grows thicker. As you move, your vision grows further obscured, until you can see only 5ft in front of you. On a DC 12 survival check, you notice that the fog grows more thick off the path, into the woods. 

If the players pursue this fact, they will need to pass a DC15 survival check to successfully traverse the fog. Upon a success, the players find a chest, emanating a thick fog. The players must make a DC 15 arcana check or a DC 18 lockpick check to open the chest. Inside they find: 
Chest Contents: 
One ring of spell storing:
At the start of each day, the wearer may select one of their prepared spells to load in the ring. They may choose to cast this spell, without spending a slot, sometime that day. 
Gold Pouch: 
Small pouch containing 15GP
Dried Alchemical Supplies: 
3 Swamproot
1 Swamp Willow 
3 flutter resin 
Hat of Disguise: 
A hat, requiring attunement
A loud, feathered pirate hat
Allows the wearer to cast disguise self at will
The disguise must include said loud, feathered pirate hat 
4) Fellwild Beasts:
After mounting a rocky outcrop along the path, a trio of direwolves leap out onto the path. The three, lead by the Alpha, cut off the path, snarling. A DC 13 Nature check reveals that the wolves are starving and malnourished. The alpha is a Chilled Dire wolf, with a small sapphire crystal growing from its chest. This wolf can cast ray of frost at will and has 10 extra HP. 
With a DC 14 animal handling check, the players can feed each wolf a day’s rations. With a DC 18 animal handling check, they can realize that it is insufficient to appease the alpha, who requires 2. 
With a DC 19 Animal Handling check, or speak with animals, the alpha will reveal that they are struggling to feed themselves due to the appearance of a Noosebloom in their section of the forest.



 
The Forest Noosebloom: 
An aberrant noosebloom grows from a rocky cliff face, blocking the entrance to what clearly appears to be a cave or wolf den. Snagroot grow radially from the large pitcherplant like flower, twitching at any sound nearby. A small bird can be seen writhing amongst the vines. One noosebloom has been seen so far, and this one is clearly different, as if the lineage is evolving. 
Lit most at the base, the noosebloom cackles with energy. With a DC 15 nature or arcana check, the players reveal that the noosebloom has been electrically charged, imbuing the snagroot with the ability to cast chromatic orb, lightning variant. This will be treated like a breath weapon and recharge on a 5 or 6. 

5. Roadside Shrine: 
Nestled under a cluster of ancient timberwood trees, an intricately handcrafted shrine greets the party's eyes. This sacred edifice is dedicated to Berronar, the revered goddess worshipped locally for her gifts of fertility and protection. It is apparent through the shrine's distinct design- a rich fusion of Tree Gnome and Dwarfish craftsmanship, that both races hold this deity in great esteem.
Challenge: Engage with the shrine, seeking its blessings and/or historical revelations.
DC: 12 (Religion/History) Draw upon your historical and theological knowledge
Loot: The Divine Abode of Berronar blesses the party with a boon. Such divine intervention grants a temporary empowerment: advantage on the next skill check or saving throw performed by each party member. This may prove instrumental in the impending challenges that lurk in the haunted house and Swallowed Swamp.
The players also notice a small collection area, with 5s 1g in a bowl. 
Keeping watch over the shrine's sanctity is Eloen, a paternalistic old Dwarf who is the self-proclaimed "Steward of Berronar's Abode". Sporting a greying beard and carrying a staff etched with mystical symbols, he comes across as stern at first impression. However, this demeanor often softens as he hears travelers' tales, shares his homebrewed ale, and offers cryptic words of guidance to those who pay homage to the goddess.

6. Traveler in Need:
You come across a wounded adventurer desperately trying to evade pursuers. The pursuers, mentioned in roll (1), are closing in on the traveler. They are a group of thieves, but they have, in turn, been stollen from by the adventurer, Tomlin Scoots, a drawvish rogue. 

Challenge: Defeat the goblin assassins and offer aid to the wounded traveler.
DC: 15 (Perception) to notice the approaching assassins in time.
Loot: The wounded traveler offers a small but valuable magical trinket, A Robe of Useful Items, as a token of gratitude. 

If the players give up the traveler, the thieves will offer 1 scroll of bless and 5gp. 

Required Marthommar Travel Event: 
Setup: 
On day 3 of the party’s travels, they will hear cries coming from deep in the woods. 
A gnome is found in the middle of his consumption at the behest of a gelatinous cube
As his shoes and pants begin to sizzle, another gnome, a woman, tries desperately to free the trapped gnome. 
The trapped gnome, however, does not wish to be freed and fights to succumb. 
The male gnome is a failed inventor, who wishes to create gelatinous cube removed of its acidic properties
This would allow someone to use a cube as a storage medium, food preservation device, etc
It also has practical methods, as a cube un-acidified could be imbued with other properties 
The gnome has been unable to perfect his device and, as a result, has nothing to bring to Marthommar’s Endless Faire. 
Character: 
Male Gnome: Sir Glimmer Geargrind
Female Gnome: Mistress Bella Geargrind 
Resolutions: 
Letting Glimmer Die: 
Glimmer will happily take this route, and will offer the players a parting gift as he sinks into the muck
From his shirt pocket he will remove a small gelatinous cube in a jar. This can be used to dissolve small objects, but will slowly grow with each new thing consumed. 
Fixing the machine: 
DC 16 arcana check reveals a miscalibration of the retro diffuser. This creates a phase dephase unsync, preventing the device from properly conjunctively disrupting the gelatin’s structure. An even higher check, dc 18, will allow the players to fix this. 
If Glimmer is removed at this point, he can also help the players and provide advantage. 
The players receive the same reward as above
The players also learn of the Unending Faire in marthommar, a continual celebration of technology, magic, and wonder held since the city’s inception. 
This faire is unavailable to the public without the purchase of a 50gp ticket, and, for saving him, he would be more than willing to claim the party is his team if they so needed it. 


