Player Information: 
Ben: 
Playing Oskar Rumnaheim 
Has family in Timberhold
Owns a tavern (best food this side of Moradin’s Sprue) - The Drake’s Flank
Is tutored in Marthommar while attending university
Tutor: Hamblin Booknose 
Hit level 3
Received ‘arcane armor’ going with the guardian line:
Thunder Gauntlets 
Unarmed thunder damage 
Defensive Field 
Gain temp HP
Arcane armor attached to existing armor (leather)
When oskar attacked the crystal in the bridgeman’s house, he gained some insight into his powers. This allowed him to channel the arcane construction efforts to his armor. 
Leticia:
Has a map to a dungeon 
Likely leads to Nethergloom’s finger
Not sure how to work that in conically 
Found dungeon map on a dead guy, in a small ornate box 
New lore (2023-07-17)
Actually found the dungeon map after being given it by a relative (long lost relative of member of the wisps)
The map has the following riddle: 
“Where twilight weaves with golden thread, seek me there, when time for bed.”
The answer is ‘west’ which will be written as 4 symbols on the full map. 
The symbols are on the full map, which comes from the wooded crystal
Comes from a small family of Kenku gatherers 
On her coming of age journey to collect interesting artifacts to one day bring back to her nest 
Discussion on lvl 3:
Gaining metamagic 
 Chose: quickened spell and twin spell
Found pink crystal in bridgeman’s house
Even more interested in archeology and exploring
Feels there is chaos around and in the world, they are flowing through the chaos
Helps explain the level up changes
Richard: 
Rock Gnome Wizard
Lives up in the glittering hills 
Realized bodies could have untapped resources
Left his tribe to study magicks, went to Marthommar to try and learn more 
Seems to be in search of power, especially motivated through necromancy
NOTE:
Not much to work with there. Can definitely be interested with magical artifacts and the like, but as for character motivations we will have to see
Kacie: 
Circle of the Moon Druid, Forest Gnome
Grew up as a farmer in Berronar’s Bossom 
Fascinated with the stars, noticed a new star glowing to the north, which she followed 
Uses an opaque piece of glass, called the ‘tear of the sky’ as her Druidic Focus
Personality Traits
I’m driven by a wanderlust that led me away from home.
I have a lesson for every situation, drawn from observing nature.
I am pensive, only taking action after careful consideration.
Ideals
Nature. The natural world is more important than all the constructs of civilization. (Neutral)
I am driven by the stars alone.
Bonds
When all else fails I can always turn to the night sky to seek refuge and guidance.
Flaws
Nature is her own being of all that is true, and to intervene is to defy Nature herself. I must flow with the ever-changing tides she brings.
I place all of my trust in the stars to my own detriment.
NOTE:	
Lots to work with here
The star will be a manifestation of Wisp’s Druid Kaelen Mistwalker, who betrayed the Wisps
Could be the final remnant of her goodness, poking from the darkness which once enveloped her, reaching out to another druid for help

Simon: 
Leif Bodom
High Elf Rogue
Shorter than most elves, standing at only 4’2’’
Luscious white lockes
Agendered 
Grew up in a poor farming family 
Lurking in the shadows
Think they may get in trouble in different
From Berronar’s Bossom
Began stealing after witnessing a group stealing from an artisan’s tent 
Stole from those they felt deserved it, and gave to the poor (robin hood) 
On a job, a close friend and brotherly figure was killed. In guilt of death and fear of law, Leif fled Berronar’s Bossom, taking a strange locked box from the job with him
NOTE:
Berronar’s bosom, being overrun by the cult (TBD) would have been the target of his job
The box likely has something to do with the leader
Will make Leif a big target in Berronar’s Bossom when the party returns 
Rest in peace 

Simon: 
Waiting … 
	


