)

Approaching: 
The roar of an angry river grows in your ears, subsuming the sounds of the swamp that you have grown accustomed to on your trek. The ground here is deeply saturated, and your feet squelch in the rotten mud, which climbs up your ankles. You push aside the foliage to reveal a single house, built monolithically on the bank of moradin’s sprue, which laps at the foundation.

A thicket of snagroot grows up and around the old bridgeman’s house. The ground wriggles and writhes like a thousand green worms. Any closer and you risk being drug under. You see the decrepit building, now held up by the plants as much as the old stone foundation. You stand huddled 200 ft away. What would you like to do?

Inv 10:
 Several things stand out: 
A crude path has been cut to the front door, which has been similarly cleared of snagroot
Around the corner, a large section of the wall has fallen away, leaving crumbled stone littered amongst the root.
The flow of moradin’s sprue splashes up and against the house, clearly higher than when the building was created. 

What would you like to do? 


The House: 
Entrances: 
Front Door
Challenges: 
Getting through snagroot
Signaling fish 
Signaling Homunculus
Crocagator (1/20)
Kitchen:
Challenges: 
Snagroot
Seen by working bullywug
Seen by crow
Top Floor: 
Challenges:
Snagroot
Being detected by fish / thrown off
MOST DANGEOUS 
Cellar:
Description:
You stare down at the roaring waters of Moradin’s Sprue, which have carved away the soil at the river bank
You will have to grab onto the vines to guide yourself along the side (DC 12 Acrobatics / Athletics)
IF NO OINTMENT IS APPLIED:
DC 13 Dex ST for each vine gripped to not get ensnared 
Growing at the river bank: 
“Heartleaf” - see “The Swallowed Swamp”
Can be used to increase the power of spells 
Small with heartshaped leaves
If falling into river:
Give 2 chances to grab onto vines, the second easier than the first, but will have them stuck in the middle of the river for the others to grab
Unlocking lock
DC 8 slight of hand check to hold onto key if not wearing ointment

Basement: 
Descriptions: 
The air is thick and damp, carrying the smell of rotting wood and stagnant water
The ground is flooded up to your ankles 
The walls and wooden ceiling above are covered with molds of various colors 
The only light comes from a few small cracks in the floor boards above
A strong, rancid fishy scent wafts through the air, mixing with the mold and stagnant water 
Features: 
Old fish-tanks with kids inside
Sannil
Missing Amberbraid boy (unconscious) (Thris)
Hidden loose floor board: 
Leads up into the study 
DC 16 Inv
Crumbled fireplace:
DC 16 Str to clear rubble 
Leads into study 
Loot: 
Boxes of old kid stuff: 
Tattered clothes 
A small wooden doll 
Food scraps
A loose stone against the wall (DC 20 INV):
Bracelet of shape water
Fly-making table
3 old fancifully made flies 
Box of fly-making materials (1gp)
Net, old and tattered 
Door to first floor: 
Locked from other side with dead bolt 
A thin light shines in between the floor and door
A throaty warbling can be heard coming from somewhere to the left, where a bullywug is encasing a young boy in a slime

First Floor: 
Study:
The Singing Fish: 
A Crystalline Trout (uncommon fish prized for beautiful, crystal-like scales) is mounted on the wall with a small pink crystal. 
The crystal is a trick to get the players to approach, and the fish will start singing without the crystal pressed
On a DC13 perception check, the players will see the fish’s eyes moving around, intelligently looking for something 
Once the fish sings, the fish sings a parody of the liren’s song: 
In the heart of the river, so murky and brown 
Liren Meadowkin was surely drowned
With water too deep for him to stand
and no one there to grab his hand 
Liren meadowkin, the wizard of bore
His crystal magic is such a snore
A hero to no one a pain to us all 
Against Nethergloom he fell and crawl. 
His spells are weak, his wand so frail
He thinks he’s mightly, but he will fail
His adventures mundane, his stories old
Hes nothing special, just a wizard, so cold 
When hearing this, the players in ear-shot must make a DC 13 Wis ST. On a fail, a magic fish hook will pierce their cheek,and they are under the effect of Mulgogi’s ‘slow’ spell
Small library of fishing books: 
“The Complete Angler” by Izaak Walton (Description of fishing tactics) (1sp)
“A River Runs Through It” By Norman Maclean (an emotional tale of a man deciding if his love is a woman or the sea) (2sp)
“The Fisherman’s Bedside Book” (beautiful pictures of local fish and their description) (3sp)
DC 18 INV: “The Art of Fly Making” - rare (5gp)
In the desk: 
A drawer with an old map, and a marking showing “fishing stash” down the river
FISHING STASH: 
Great fishing rod location down the river
“Mystic fishing pole”
Buried in fast-moving moradin’s sprue flow
Kitchen: 
Descriptions: 
Slimy, grease caked vines web up the wall
They are pale in color, with a papery, falkey quality
Pots and pans are scattered around the room, similarly covered in the webbing. Some contain rotting, mold and fungus covered food still inside 
Any cabinets left are full of moldy bread, spoiled fruit, and clear signs of disuse 
Cobwebs hang from the ceiling where vines haven’t already grown
Bullywug:
Two bullywug homunculus work in the kitchen, preparing the boy for transportl. 
If alerted, one will run out the hole in the wall and the other will run up the stairs to alert the fish 
The one running out the hole in the wall and hiding outside the house, to trap the players when they climb the ladder
The one running upstairs is going to alert Mulgogi, and locks the door behind him
Pots on the fire:
There is a boiling pot of crawfish which both the bullywug and the children eat
Claw traps:
These are manipulated by Mulgogi as a trap, shooting from various pots at the players as they pass
3x traps 
DC 14 Dex ST or take 1d4 claw damage 
Bedroom 
Description:
An acrid, familiar smell emits from behind the door before you even open.
The handle, door, and space between the door and floor are sticky with slightly acidic frog goo
When opening, a sludge of slime sloughs onto the floor, no longer held by the door.
The room is a frog’s nest, created by piling nets, blankets, furniture and more with channels dug in to create a space for the frog and bullywug
DC 12 perception check: 
The players will notice common, clearly written high up on the wall where the goo hasn’t caked
The common reads “hector” in increasingly misspelled and disheveled handwriting 
This is the name of the bullywug which was grafted onto the body of a large swamp frog, who was trying to retain person hood 
If the players speak this name to the frog, it will turn on Mulgogi and attack the painting 
DC 15 inv check + DC 13 con check for acid: 
A tarnished silver ring (2sp)
A handful of brightly colored glass beads
The goo-covered leather bound journal (singed and broken) of the bridgeman “journal of yorim brim, bridgeman” 
SEE RECORDING FOR JOURNAL ENTRY
Second Floor:
Prize Room
Descriptions: 
You enter a once lavishly decorated, fish themed room. 
A leather couch sits rotting in the corner, sat across from an old fireplace
Where the walls aren’t covered with moss and rotting wood, three stuffed fish like the one downstairs sit, each with a pink crystal
CLICK!
The latch you came in through clicks locked, and a thick warbling is heard from the other side
The hatch is locked: 
Lockpicking: DC 22 
Smash: DC 14
The fish on the wall chime up, slowly at first, letting out little giggles the players can see pulse from their twitching gills
Finally they break into laughter and proclaim that they are trapped
The players will notice snagroot creeping in from the open window, 
The fish will exclaim the key is gone and they will make the snagroot come and tangle them all up!
Finding the key:
DC 13 inv check looking out the window
See the key snagged on a root, which is far but climbing towards the open window
The players must allow the snagroot to fill ½ the room to get the key
Smashing the door:
DC 17 Str check
DC 18 lock pick
Back hallway to bedroom:
Description:
A torrent of water shoots from the door as you enter
Water rushes past your ankles, making it difficult to move through the hallway which lies ahead 
A rotted plaque hangs by one chain in the center of the hallway, reading “The Family”
The walls are lined with at least 8 fishing rods, each controlled by Mulgogi
Fishing Rod:
+3 to hit, 1d4+1 dmg, subtracts 5 ft from player movement until removed as a bonus action
Bedroom:
Description:
You push past the growing force of water pressing up against you and round the corner, revealing a bedroom.
Near the other side of the room, hovering in the air, a sight more fearful than anything you have come across on your short adventure together. A visage, painted on canvas and enframed wood strikes fear into your heart. The source of this house’s sinister evil to be sure (show painting)
MULGOGI
Otherwise this was once a bedroom, with ragged woolen sheets matted with dirt and rot
Creatures in the room:
1x Giant Frog Homunculus, named hector
1x bullywug homunculus 
Mulgogi painting
What’s mulgogi doing:
Holding the staff of create water, which will crack when the players get their first hit on Mulgogi 
Throwing objects at the players as they approach 
Fight Progression: 
Mulgogi FIrst Hit:
Water staff breaks
Mulgogi second hit:
Telekinesis to rumble the house, creating a fissure in the middle of the room


Behind Mulgogi:
The outline of a fish stand, with no fish. When the 
Rewards: 
Basement:
Bracelet of shape water, requires attunement
Net
Fly making kit
First Floor:
Crystalline Trout
“The art of fly making”
“Fishing stash” location 
Second Floor:
3x rare fish
Staff of create water
Necklace of unseen servant 




— Stat Blocks  — 

Mulgogi: 
Painting of a fish
AC 12 Crystal Heart
HP: 
Speed: 0
Str: 0
Dex: 0
Con: 13 (+1)
Int: 18 (+4)
Wis: 10
Cha: 7 (-2)
Arcana +6, Inv +6, History +6
Senses: Darkvision 100 ft
Langs: common, sylvan, infernal 
Damage Resistances: Necrotic, Psychic
Damage Immunities: Poison
Condition Immunities: Charmed, Exhaustion, Frightened, Poisoned
Abilities:
Ethereal Sight: See 60 ft into the Ethereal Plane
Telekinesis: 
The painting can use telekinesis powers through the crystal in its wood. It can cast mage hand as an action. It can cast telekinesis 2x / day. 
Possession: 
As an action, target a creature. Creature makes DC 13 Wis ST or be possessed. While possessed the target will begin to flop like a fish on the ground, incapacitating them until the start of their next turn. 
Staff of Create Water:
A staff given by Lord Nethergloom. Shoots a jet of water, but breaks at the end of the fight.
Once broken, the staff can cast create water 2x / day. 
DC 13 Spell Save DC
Spells:
1) Slow (speed halved, -2 to dex saves, lasts 15 mins @ expense of removing other benefits)
2) Silent Image
3) Cause Fear
4) 

Homunculus Bullywugs:
Medium Humanoid
AC: 10 (tough skin)
HP: 15
Speed: 30ft, swim 30ft

Resistances to Poison 
Acrobatics +3, Stealth +3
Senses: Darkvision 60ft, 
Langs: bullywug, abyssal 
Amphibious: Corruptd bulllywug can breath air and water
Corrupted Nature:
The dark forces binding the creature give it resistance to necrotic damage and vulnerability to radiant damage 
Actions:
Bite: +4 to hit, reach 5ft, one tgt, hit: 6(1d8+2) piercing dmg
Claws: +4 to hit, reach 5ft, one tgt, hit: (1d4+2) slashing dmg 
Corrupted Ooze: 
On a successful claw hit, DC 8 Con save. On fail, take 1d6 necrotic dmg o rnone on a success


Crocagator	
Large monstrosity, unaligned	
Armor Class	14 (natural armor)
Hit Points	90 (17d10+34)
Speed	30 ft., swim 40 ft.
STR	19 (+4)
DEX	12 (+1)
 CON	14 (+2)
INT	2 (-4)
WIS	10 (+0)
CHA	5 (-3)


Skills	Stealth +3
Senses	passive Perception 10

Challenge	5 (1,800 XP)

Hold Breath.	The crocagator can hold its breath for 30 minutes.
Multiattack.	The crocagator makes two attacks: one with its bite and one with its tail.
Bite.	Melee Weapon Attack: +7 to hit, reach 5 ft., one target. Hit: 15 (2d10+4) piercing damage. If the target is a creature, it is grappled (escape DC 14). Until this grapple ends, the target is restrained, and the crocagator can't bite another target.
Tail.	Melee Weapon Attack: +7 to hit, reach 10 ft., one target. Hit: 11 (2d6+4) bludgeoning damage.


Mother Frog: 
	The mother frog has AC 13 | 30 HP | 30 Speed 
	Breath Weapon: DC 12 Dex Save | 20/80 | (1d10 + 3 Acid Damage) | Recharges on ⅛ 
Basic Frog: 
	Basic Frog doesn’t have access to the swallow attack 
	Basic Frog HP: 12
	Basic Frog AC: 10
	Basic Frog STR: +1
	Basic Frog Dex: +2
sadfa

