Marthommar: 
Lore Overview: 
Founding of Marthommar: 
Marthommar was founded shortly after the events of the last rippling. The site of a major conflict, many remnants of the battle contributed to the industry which formed thereafter. The large cogwheel, set into the side of the University of Marthommar, was a surviving remnant of a great siege weapon stopped on the fields of Marthommar, as it made its way to Stonegate. 
The post-war period saw an upsurge in people searching for knowledge and understanding to prevent future chaos. Sensing an opportunity, a group of learned individuals, led by the dwarven scholar Thalion Celebros, sought to establish a center of education and knowledge.
The remnants of battle magics made this location perfect for studying magic’s effects on the material plane, as well as for constructing various mechanisms and artifacts from the refuse left in the battle’s wake. 
The last rippling: 
Marthommar is built on the battlefield of “The Great Stall” where the wisps were able to decisively stop Nethergloom’s forces on their way to Stonegate. 
Many creatures of the mountains and the swamps had gathered here, a prime staging area, but news had traveled to the Wisps, who equally galvanized their own forces, leading to one of the most important victories in the war. 
In the wake of the battle, Marthommar became a place for refugees, who made use of the scraps to start their own new lives. This also attracted many scholars, who saw this as an opportunity to learn about the magical effects of the time. 
Present Cultural Overview: 
Marthommar is a cultural and educational hub of Stonegate with an incredibly diverse population, consisting of individuals from all walks of life, race and background. 
The diversity of the population is reflected in the architecture, with a swathe of different styles overlapping and merging into a mosaic of cultural diffusion. 
The city streets are bustling with small market stalls, talented singing bards, and artistic creative folk all vying for the attention of the those traveling through the city. 
The city simultaneously honors its past and anticipates the future, embracing technological advancements anywhere they can be placed. 
All matter of good can be found here, and while the vendors are resourceful, most are getting their goods from Berronar’s Bossom. 
University of Marthommar:
The university has faculties that cater to everything, including magical theory, history, technology, natural sciences, art, culture, music, and more. 
The Grand Library - The Archive of Aeons:
This elaborate technical wonder serves as the central hub of information for the province of stonegate. 
All matter of technology works to store, manage, and maintain the archive. 
NOTE: Flesh this out
NOTE: Create NPC here 



