Session 0 (3/16/23)
	Magic doesn’t simply exist, ya know. Snow doesn’t just fall from the sky and a tree doesn’t just rise from the Earth. Magic is from somewhere… it IS somewhere. That somewhere tends to bubble up now and again, from wherever it is beneath all things. And if you are very lucky, you may find your bucket has dipped into those depths. As you pull it back up, it could be that you grabbed yourself something truly… magical. 

	Well, not you, of course! No, the last Rippling was almost 1000 years ago! We call that the Rippling, you understand, because when Magic seeps in, it tends to ripple through just about everything. The last Rippling was before my time… before anyone’s time now. Back then a wizard’s spell or a fae promise were ‘bout as common place as a fart. But you’d know that! Surely, you’ve heard bard song harkening back to those times. 

	You’ve heard tales of Liren Meadowkin, the Crystalline Wizard. I know I’ve sung bits and pieces of The Rippled Warsong ‘round you! Heck I’ve even heard you and your pals skipping to that tune… eh what’s that called? The Ballad of The Wisps. That’s right. 
	
	No, those days are long gone, and you could be so lucky! It is because of Those Wisps, and the sacrifices of The Dreamblade Eleri Dawnstrike that we have had such peace as you’ve grown up in.  Back during the Rippled War, if not for The Wisps, Stonegate may have fallen, and then where would we be? Eh, but now look at me, rambling about old times. 

Now listen, you run off and get done what you need to today! If you’re good and back at a reasonable hour, I’ll tell you a tale of the Stormfox. Because you never know, maybe you just might need to know it some day…


Session 1 Intro: 
	
	You find yourself in the small forest village of Timberhold. You may have arrived along Copper’s Vein, keeping the roaring waters of Moradin’s Sprue to your North. You may have descended from the Glittering Hills, following Rock Way into the dense Emeraldleaf Woods where Timberhold took root. However you traveled, the village was heralded by chimney smoke rising high above the thick tree-top, and the distant sounds of saws and axes chopping wood. 

	You know the landscape surrounding Timberhold to be densely forested, insulating the village from much of the outside world. You also know that just to the village’s north sits The Swallowed Swamp, a remnant of days gone by and a testament to magic’s former power. This murky, thick, and rarely tread bog bubbles with strange sounds from time to time, and tales of deadly creatures lurking in its depths are common. What’s more is that many have said it seems to be growing.

	As you arrive at the outskirts of Timberhold, you are met with a flurry of activity as the Festival Of Liren is in full swing. Liren Meadowkin, or as some call him The Crystalline Wizard, was a great Sorcerer and member of the fabled adventuring party, The Wisps. Long ago, Liren and his companions protected Liren’s hometown, Timberhold, from the great Lich, Lord Nethergloom. The dark magic he wielded created the looming Swallowed Swamp and destroyed the lives of so many. Today’s festival is a celebration of Liren’s, and the crystalline magicks he wielded when felling Lord Nethergloom.

	As you move further into the village, you see decorations of colorful ribbons and streamers adorning the building. The sweet scent of candied pine cones and forest stew mingles with the wooded aroma which permeates this part of the world. The streets are bustling with villagers in festive clothing of all kinds. Dancers and musicians move about the crowd, singing battle songs and busking for tips. The air is alive.

	You finally arrive in the Town Center, and bare witness to Liren’s final gift to his place of origin, The Szafirleśny, or “Wooded Crystal” as most foreigners refer to it. This large oak tree turned glittering crystal is said to protect Timberhold from all who seek to prune its vast branches. The iridescent leaves sway in the breeze, reflecting vibrant colors onto all who celebrate in the village square. A stage is set up opposite the tree, and performers sing to an excited crowd. Vendors have constructed stalls where they sell any matter of good. Kids laugh and parents look on in contentment. 

	But not everyone is partying. Tucked away between two buildings, far from the main crowd but still visible to all, sits a stockade. Locked up is only one man, who’s pitiful eyes glance at all who dare look his way. His display is flanked on either side by guards, and while most only stay for a fleeting moment, a small group of people stand huddled, talking amongst themselves. It seems that it is not all mirth and merriment in this secluded forest village.

	As you take this all in, you can’t help but wonder what adventures and challenges await you. 


Session Notes - 2023-03-30

Introductions: 
Ben:
Own a bar - The Drakes Flank 
“The most savory dire bore south of Moardin’s Sprue”
Got here 2 days ago 
Festively celebrated the festival
First come first serve
Oskar helps around 
Leticia:
Russet Crow - like a bird 
Kenku, fairly young
Trying to find an adventure
Didn’t know about festival, nest doesn’t like to talk to many others
Staring without blinking 
Kacie: 
Isra Lightfyrn
Followed star here to timberhold
Heard of festival of Liren
Richard: 
Likkvorn (Lik)
Part of a tribe of scavenger gnomes 
At timberhold because it is a big gathering of people 
Always looking for people who may be able to teach him something about magic 
Simon:
Lief Bodom 
Unlike most high elfs, only 4’2’’ tall 
Luscious white lockes
Agendered 
Grew up in a poor farming family 
Lurking in the shadows
Think they may get in trouble in different
The gem identification: 
Leticia plays
Tries to steal the gem
Succeeds with the help of Kacie
Leticia now follows 
The eating competition 2: 
Oskar got third place to Oberthal The Bold
Gem Identification 2; 
Richard stole a gem with mage hand
Simon swiped a gem
Called out Bombal for stealing from Leticia
Ran away
Oskar came to investigate
Called over Harren
Is on the lookout for Leif 


Post session notes:
Leticia's character, russet, put the gem in their mouth
Oberthal The bold a competing restaurant in timberhold
Simon's character, lace, crawled out the gym guy for stealing some Leticia, then revealed he had stolen from the gym guy, then ran away
Ben had a unpleasant interaction with heron
Everyone was interested in the play
Hard barkham, chieftain was introduced when the play began
Casey attacked the puppet staff which shot the firework at the wooded Crystal
Leticia, Richard, and Simon all investigated the crystal tree but found nothing
   Side note: had they rolled high enough I would had revealed that their appeared to be a cavity within the treat, but I didn't have to worry about that
Oscar was the first to run towards the fire
Leticia cast chromatic orb and chill touch at the fire
Simon and KC both put out tiny fires
The frogs have just leaped from the trees


Session 2 Intro:

	Last time, in Eversland, our disjoint adventurers arrived in the forest village of Timberhold, nestled deeply in the Emeraldleaf Woods. Kacie’s Isra Lightfyrn, a druidic forest gnome far from her farming home became intimately acquainted with the Wooded Crystal, and probably should have done it alone. Simon’s Rogue, Lief Bodom, a half-elf in height and not race, took to the shadows and observed the festivities of Liren’s Day. Richard introduced us to a rock gnome wizard named Likkvorn, whos partial knowledge of history is second only to his historical knowledge of parts (body parts). Ben’s dwarven city boy home for the holidays, Artificer Oskar Rumnaheim, had eyes larger than his stomach and couldn’t craft a way to eat the competition. Finally, Russet Crow (no e), a Kenku sorcerer from Leticia shone bright, but that’s just everything attached to their cloak. 

	The village was alight with celebration on our day of arrival, and most of our group’s attention was focused on a little gem identification game. Compelled by their quest for shinies, Russet paid the game’s fee 10 fold and sat down for a game. Not interested in playing, Russet made a play for the gem sat in front of them. Russet scuffled with Gem Czar Bombil and his assistant, who tried to stop the thievery, before the commotion was noticed and de-escelated by Isra. 

	This game caught the attention of the rest of our party, who each took to playing it in their own unique way. Lief decided to confront Bombil on their perceived taking advantage of Russet. Seemingly in an attempt to take heat off of Russet, but potentially just in panic, Lief revealed they had also stolen a gem, before fleeing into the crowd. Likkvorn’s ghostly grip slipped a gem away before it could be presented to the game players. Seeing Bombil clearly flustered, Oskar approached to be of any assistance. Consoled, Bombil called over the leader of the Bog Watch, Harren, a staunch, no nonsense man who took down the description of Lief and ignored Oskar’s complaints. 

	As the gem-colored dust settled and the sun fell behind the trees, Timberhold Chieftan Har Barkem took to the central stage to introduce the night’s entertainment, Lord Nethergloom’s Doom. You watched as the dwarves of Timberhold dramatically reenacted the harrowing battle between Crystalline Wizard Liren Meadowkin and the villainous lich, Lord Nethergloom. Building-tall puppets were revealed and engaged in a clunky but impressive display, peaking as puppet Liren’s massive staff alighted with sparks as he summoned the final spell to fell Lord Nethergloom.

	Then, a crash in the distance! The sound of trees breaking! A firework burst from the staff but distracted puppeteers sent it flying towards the Wooded Crystal, where it plunked off, creating a small spider-webbing crack before ricocheting into the distance and exploding. Thinking quick, Oskar grabbed his family’s chili pot and ran in the direction of the explosion. Everyone else stayed behind and, in the ensuing chaos, took to investigating the Szafirleśny. Finding the crack no longer spreading but nothing else of note, everyone else took off after Oskar.

	Arriving at the north end of the village, a towering inferno had consumed the small building where the firework had struck. A small contingent of guards were trying, and failing, to stop the flames from spreading. Seeing the immediate danger of the flames making their way to a shack holding more fireworks, our good citizens took to stopping the fire themselves. Likkvorn summoned an unseen servant who began gathering water. Russet slung icy spells at the danger, while Oskar, Isra, and Lief began dumping water on whatever they could. You were clearly making progress, but you noticed Haren emerge from the thick woods to your north, and shout “Use the fire! I’ll handle the big one!” Before diving back into the woods and watching as three large frog creatures hopped from the bush. 

	Welcome back! We are right back into initiative. Leif! One frog bursts from the brush onto the battlefield. They make for you immediately and lash out to attack… 


Session Notes; 
Frog Fight:
Kacie attacked frog with flame, set it on fire
Simon finished off the attack, killing the frog
Leticia sent a crossbow bolt flying into the distance
A frog one-shot ben
Simon crit against the frog
Oskar was downed
Leif was downed
The large frog swallowed harren 
One frog jumped into the village
The players were put in the black goo
Large frog tries to eat isra 
Russet shoots the large frog
Lik keeps using toll the dead 
Isra makes an illusion to burst into flame, successfully 
Russet helps Isra escape using a rope
Russet goes
Frog Encoutner Complet
Kenku inside the frog w/ harren
Cut out by isra 

Session 3 Intro: 
	A dolorous bell rings out in the distance…

	Last time, in the realm of Eversland, our now nearly united heroes continued their fight against four freaky frog fellows. Flames were flung, daggers dug in, and missiles made purchase. The fight’s fuse lit quickly when Isra set one creature ablaze, but the frogs proved their bite was worse than their hop. Oskar was downed by the frog’s goo, Lief was bitten to the ground, and Isra was nearly eaten whole. Russet rescued their gnomish ally with a well thrown rope, but wasn’t so lucky as they were slurped right in, along with leader of the bog watch, Harren. However, this vore-ay into frog guts only lasted a moment, as the large abomination frog was felled by a final firebolt from Isra, and the two were cut from its guts.

	As Russet was revived and Lief laid unconscious next to similarly unconscious Harren, an anguished cry pierced the air. Oskar’s mother, Amber, rushed into the clearing seeking her lost child, and Oskar’s sister, Sannl. Oskar examined a letter Sannl had allegedly left in explanation of her disappearance, but after realizing it was clearly not written in her handwriting, he knew something needed to be done. 

At Amber’s and Oskar’s behest, the party followed Amber into the hidden depths of the Woodcutter’s Lodge cellar. Citizens of Timberhold sat gathered, all of which having lost a family member under similar, suspicious circumstances. You were introduced to bog-watch tadpole, Peakin Landmar, sympathizer to the cause. He explained that the Swallowed Swamp to the north appeared to be encroaching, moving for the first time in centuries. This was corroborated by blacksmith Ridden Blackhold, who recounted the tale of his home, Barksbreak, being slowly consumed by the creeping swamp. 

Despite Ridden’s warnings and the clear danger the swamp posed, the humble group of parents and sympathizers were planning an expedition into the swamp in search of those lost. However, with the arrival of five clearly capable adventurers, a new plan was presented. You were each asked to take up arms in service of the lost children of Timberhold, and set out into the swamp to learn what could have happened. 

To this end, you were each offered provisions and access to a multitude of supplies. You were also given an outdated map of the north, detailing several key landmarks: the village of barksbreak, a cave called drip echo, a possible troll sighting, and the final bridge over Moradin’s Sprue into the former edge of the Swamp’s territory. While the group of parents weren’t sure where to head specifically, they informed you each of some potential threads to follow. It was suggested to talk to Timberhold pyrotechnic, Mason, who claimed to have seen a dark figure moving about town. Amber suggested you look through her home for any clues. And you were warned that the guards patrol the only road north, making the start of your journey all the more difficult. 

Not wasting any time, you set out for Mason’s home, guided by Tadpole Landmar. Lief, healed by the proprietors of the Woodcutter’s lodge, caught Mason making for the backdoor of his home. Stopping him in his tracks, Mason freely divulged what he had been trying to reveal to the people of Timberhold for some time and led you to the edge of town, there deft investigation revealed a secret tunnel clearly dug into a hill side. 

This is where we find you all now. The sun has set and a summer’s breeze flutters through the air. A self assured Mason pulls from his pipe, while Peakin stands at a distance, clearly keeping a loose watch. Welcome back, what would you like to do? 


Session Notes - 4/20/23: 
The players should potentially explore: 
The Rumnaheim Residence
The tunnel
Should potentially talk to: 
Guards
Cagey response to questions about kids
Har Barkum
Will inform the players that they have sent word to the kingdom
More Mason
Will suggest the players be careful.
If charmed: nice bourbon 
Peakin
Suggest going to barksbreak for ideas
Could suggest dogs
Ridden
Will inform players about the saw
Amber
Will offer players healing chili
Should be reminded: 
Visit barksbreak
We aren’t sure where the kids are going 
You can ask us for provisions 
Will happen immediately:
Players will investigate
Players will rest (probably)
Players will set out into swamp
Walking hazard:
Quick sand
If investigating: 
Potentially hazardous flowers 
If sleeping: 
Will o’ wisp 
Barksbreak:
Missions: 
Group opting to rest 
Went to the woodcutters 
Ben went home and investigated
Found all pieces of evidence 
Ben was given a pot of chili and a piece of sweet bread from his father
The rest of the gang wakes up and eats breakfast in the lodge. 
Liik likes berries when they are dead and shrivled 
The party rendezvous at the edge of town
Going through the tunnel:
Isra tastes the walls, learns about the frogs passing through the tunnel
Leif investigates but finds nothing 
Poison Trap:
Lief hit with acidic goo 
Into the swamp:\
Russet finds a ‘mudspore’ mushroom identified by liik 
Enough to create one dose
Can be used to cure infections 
Order: 
Isra
Oskar
Lief
Liik 
Russet 
Isra spots the guards 
Everyone sneaks by
Richard uses unseen servant to cause a distraction
Simon steals a second tier frogling badge 
Everyone continues into the woods 
The characters get into the swamp proper 
Isra felt good, but now that nature is getting affected and corrupted she is feeling wary
Lik likes the vibe and the fact they are on the heels of a necromancer
Lief doesn’t want to go through witnessing someone else losing someone, so still very gloom filled 
In the murk:
Richard, kacie, and leticia are sucked into the mud 
Lief ties rope around russet
Russet frees self from muck 
Lik and isra fall beneath the muck
Isra is pulled free by oskar and russet
Lik finds a skeletal rabbit in the muck 
Group takes a short rest
Eat’s chili 
Ate half the pot 
Got to barksbreak 

Session 4 Intro: 
	Last time, in Eversland, we got just a taste of the many goo’s this world has to offer. 

	We began last session on the edge of Timberhold, having just discovered a hidden tunnel dug into the hill side. The party dispersed, with all but Oskar heading to the Woodcutter’s Lodge for a snack and a night’s rest. Oskar went home and, after being confronted by his father about heading into the swamp, decided to investigate Sannil’s room for clues. Oskar found clear signs of a struggle, with remnants of the same frog goo encountered during your fight, as well as the much stranger presence of paint flakes not matching anything nearby. 

	The next morning, equipped with a pot of Drake’s Flank chili, a sack of supplies, and the entrance of the tunnel, the party set out into the woods. Plastered with frog goo, Lief pocketed a distracted Frog Watch’s badge as the rest of the party snuck further into the thick. The further from Timberhold you got, the more the Emerald leaf woods took on a sinister note. Oaks seemingly twisted into unnatural shapes flanked your path, as the ground grew more thick with decay and detritus. The journey went on with little issue, until many of you realized you were quickly sinking into the muck below.

	This set off a flurry of activity, with some struggling to free themselves from a muddy demise, and others seemingly at peace with their gooey fate. Russet was able to wriggle free, and helped Oskar and Lief wrench Isra and Likkvorn from an otherwise certain doom. Through teamwork and quick thinking, the swamp was unable to swallow you, yet.

	You all took a short rest, gathering around Oskar’s family chili pot. Russet and Likkvorn worked together to put the Swallowed in Swallowed Swamp, swapping cihil back and forth in an effort to share in its sustaining umami. This didn’t prove to be particularly effective, and you all packed up and continued to follow Isra’s guidance further north.

	After nearly a day’s walk, the five of you have arrived at the abandoned village of Barksbreak, nearly on the edge of the Emerald Leaf woods, pressed up right against Moradin’s Sprue. The small, indeterminate foot prints have led you here, and you now notice that there appears to be several more sets than before. A minority lead into the village, while most seem to head off in the opposite direction. What would you like to do? 

Session Notes - 5/4/23
Crew is deciding which direction to go: into town / following footprints 
Learns more about the noosebloom
Read through lore 
Order into town:
Isra 
Lief
Russet
Lik
Oskar
Lik is mostly legs, crotch at chest height
Heading into town
Halfling detected by the party
Cliff gave the party the gator quest
Showed the party around town 
Showed town hall
Showed library
Showed black smith’s home
Picked several plants, russet picked glow mushroom and a shaving of lorkroot
Group trying to figure out what to do with the crocogators 
Suggested freezing them up to their feet
Suggested feeding the chili to croc
Suggested talking to the croc 
Oskar not letting the crocs eat chili
Isra: will shout ‘look over there’ to distract gators 
Croc Names:
Snapmaw
Shred 
Motivation: Protect eggs
Persuasion: food
Croc fight:
Kacie talked successfully
Gang was going to leave
Richard cast magic missile 
Leticia did as well, nearly killed croc
Scared crocs agreed to not attack halfling 
Kacie gathered scales
Convinced cliff to go pick, which worked
Meeting marlene: 
Told joke gave safe 
Tried picking the safe
Failed 
Burned safe open 
Set grease inside on fire
Collected label-less wine bottles
Simon collected dagger
Russet collected vial
Sleeping: 
Leveled up 
Waking up the next morning
Party wants to go to the mayor’s house
Cliff suggests they go talk to the bullywugs
Leads party to where they can find 
Order:
Isra
Oskar
Lief
Lik
Russet
Seen by frogs
Proffer the croc teeth




Marlene Jokes: 
Q: How many orcs does it take to sharpen a sword?
A: Three. One to hold the sword and two to move the whetstone.
 An orc walks into the bar with a parrot on his shoulder and the bartender says "Wow, that's really neat. Where'd you get it?"
"In a cave." the parrot replies."
Why is it better to listen to dwarven bards by candlelight?
Because you can stuff the candlewax in your ears.
Why do paladins wear chain mail?
	Because it’s holy armor 

Session 5 Intro: 
// Last time, in Eversland, our party learned that they are three orcs short of a sharpening wheel!

Last time, in Eversland, our party learned what goo can do for you! 
Previously, you found yourselves deep in the swampy tangle that has become of the North Emeraldleaf Woods. The tiny, unidentified footprints you had been following became greater in number, but you all chose to venture into the abandoned village of Barksbreak, where far fewer prints could be seen.  You were overwhelmed with the sights of a once wholesome village sinking into the sinister swamp spreading from beyond Moradin’s Sprue. As you took this in, Russet and Lief noticed something: a tiny man peeking from beyond a decrepit home.
Both party members called out to the peeping Tom before making chase, which ended shortly as your quarry decided not to run and instead introduced himself as Cliff. A confusing goo-based conversation ensued, with Russet’s quick flattery ingratiating Cliff to the party. He offered to lead you through the town, and even let you in one one of Marlene’s gut busters on the conditions that you help him deal with a pair of Crocogators encroaching on his territory.
Out by the edge of town, you found a nest of crocogators dug into the flooded forest floor. You unsuccessfully asked them to leave and, sensing danger, Likk let fly a volley of magic missiles. Quickly followed by another blast from Russet, it was clear the crocs were injured and scared, which was enough to get them to agree to your terms. 
Satisfied with your work, Cliff took you home to meet his clan and give you your reward of a locked safe. After tinkering and bashing proved unsuccessful, Oskar selected option three: fire. Something within the safe ignited, burning away what could have been valuable but ultimately opening the safe and delivering your reward!
Finally, after a night’s sleep in Cliff’s home and a breakfast provided by the dear Marlene, you were pointed in the direction of a nearby tribe of bullywug, who Cliff said may be able to help you on your journey. Luckily, that is exactly what transpired. After a respectful greeting, you were introduced to the tribal leader and his translator. You were given three vials of Bullywug secretion and a key. This key could lead to an entrance to the bridgeman’s home unknown to those who have taken up residence there. 
And it is here we find you all now, sat in the muck and grime, bellies full of grubs and worms, and bullywug croaks heralding the morning sun. What would you like to do? 

Session Notes - 5/25/23
Likk puts the secretions on himself while speaking to the bullywug
Runs towards the bridgemans’ home
Leif and russet stay back, oskar and likkvorn go forward
The journey is hard, with oskar grabbed by 3 vines and likk grabbed by 1
They get to the right corner of the building, and see something (a bullywug) working through the hole in the wall
Lik decides to turn around, traveling without issues
Oskar travels closer, and is seen by the bullywug, who runs into the building to alert Mulgogi 
The other bullywug lies in wait 
Oskar begins to climb towards the hole in the wall
LIk continues to circumnavigate 
Lik discovers the ledge, navigates and falls
Russet blasts the water, cushioning likk’s trajectory towards some fallen trees
Leif threw a noose and it landed perfectly to lik, who grabbed it and used it to pull himself away from the fallen trees
Lik was pulled back onto the bank
The three moved back towards the house 
Oskar gets into the building 
Attacked by bullywug
In a fight
Everyone else got into the basement 


Session 6 Intro:
Last time, in Eversland, Russet and Lief enjoyed a nice mushroom picnic by the campfire. 
Our party reconvened last session with the closure of a meeting with a small tribe of bullywug. Likkvorn hastily doused himself in a full year’s stock of Bullywug secretion before bolting from the tribal circle. With no clear direction or intention, Lik and the rest of the party found themselves posted up at a safe distance from the mysterious bridgeman’s house. 
There, Oskar and Lik volunteered to trek towards the house, through a sea of snagroot. Russet and Lief, meanwhile, took it easy. The path to the bridgeman’s house started simple enough, but the closer our duo got, the thicker the root bed became. Each step closer to the building grew more difficult. At a point, they decided to wade around the house, to get a better look into the wall of the kitchen, where Oskar could hear something moving around.
Unable to get a clear look from their angle, the pair split up. Trepidatious Likkvorn decided to turn around to seek out a path of less resistance, while stubborn Oskar forged forth, determined to get a look at the source of the the warbling squelches. As Lik walked away, Oskar came wave to face with a papery-skinned, milky-eyed bullywug who disappeared somewhere deeper in the house. Not perturbed by the appearance of the creature, Oskar began, with much difficulty, climbing his way into the bridgeman’s kitchen. 
As he grew closer, Oskar learned what kept the attention of the bullywug creature. A bundle of hardened paper-mache material encases a stiff, humanoid form from the head to the waist; small, emaciated legs protruding from the base. With haste, Oskar stumbled through the hole in the wall, but was ambushed, tackled and attacked! 
Unbeknownst to the rest of the party that Oskar was fighting for his and potentially other lives, they worked out the best path into the bridgeman’s home. Likkvorn noticed a thinning of snagroot on the bank of Moradin’s Sprue and attempted to shimmy his way along a ledge towards the cellar hatch the bullywug tribe had told you about. However, not the athletic type, our gnome fell into the river below. However, Lief, who must have wanted to check off “catching a high-waisted fish” from their bucket list, hoisted the necromancer from the Sprue’s clutches.
Lief doused themself in the final vial of bullywug secretions and lead the party into the cellar. Here we find you all now. You stand, ankle deep in stagnant, pungent water which drips in from the walls in various places. Your eyes adjust to the darkness, and before your surroundings come fully into view, to your right you hear the “thunk thunk” of fingers on glass. 
We will do this in initiative as we have one member of the party in a fight. 

Session Notes - 6/1/23
Lief is attracted to fish
Lik is scared lol 
Multicolored fish swim by heads with 
The gang harasses a young girl, she cries and screams
Russet covers the young girl’s mouth and attempts to comfort the girl
succeeds
Oskar attempts to push the bullywug, fails, and runs towards the stairs
Russet calms the girl
Lik attempts to mage hand on the other side of the door and fails, oskar sees
Opens door, runs into basement to find sannil
Sannil is stoked 
The gang fights and kills the bullywug:
Magic missile from russet
Stab from leif
Russet pulls pink crystal out of the fish
roll s arcana: 
Oskar opens Thris’ encasing, revealing the kid
Lik has fish from the wall
Russet has unidentified colored liquid in a jar from a box in the kitchen
Saw under the door into the 1st floor bedroom 
Group freed Thris from amber, saw ring and took it off. In Lik’s inventory
Put thris and Sannil in barrels downstairs 
Get to the bedroom with a group athletics 
Lik tries to identify goo in the room , correlates it to the river moss trout which uses goo to create a habitat
2 crystals collected
They are all in 3rd floor and have triggered the fish 
Discovered “Hector” name on the wall of the bedroom 
Headed up the stairs 



Session 7 Intro:
Last time, you all put a pair of children in barrels…
Welcome back to eversland. Our party continues their quest into the North Emeraldleaf woods in search of the missing Timberhold children. After meeting Cliff in Barksbreak and convening with a tribe of Bullywug, you learned others had seen the hooded man you chase in these woods, and know where they may be. You have made it to the bridgeman’s house, a forgotten building of a dead man, given life by new inhabitants. You all climbed your way in, one treacherous way or another, which is where we found you last time.
Those of you who went downstairs discovered Sannil, Oskar’s sister locked in a caged fish tank. Scared and confused, the party attempted to comfort her. The resulting screams alerted Oskar, who disengaged from his tussle with some bullywug monstrosity and unlocked the door to the basement.
Batting away visions of colorful fish as you rose, shuffled up the stairs to confront the creature. Russet pecked away with their magic missiles, paving the way for Lief to land the final blow. The two picked over the creature while Likkvorn and Oskar investigated a certain singing fish.  A small pink crystal shone from the wood mounting, and Russet’s keen beek easily wriggled it free.

You all moved further into the building, through what was once a kitchen. Oskar was pelted by yesteryear’s dinner, but you all made it to the back of the building. There, another fish was discovered nestled in the vines grown up on the wall, another small crystal set in its base. You rescued Thris Amberbraid, and Lik pocketed a ring found on his finger. Lief discovered a small bedroom, caked in some substance Likkvorn learned came from river moss trouts. A nest was found, with writings of the name “Hector” carved into the walls.

Finally, there was only one more way to go: up. The party ascended the stairs into a hatched attic. As caboose Oskar began closing the hatch, it slammed shut, a locking noise heard from the other side. At that moment *hehehe* *hehehe* *hehehe* “Youre trapped in here! No way out, and the root is sure to snag!!”. But… before they could even finish the sentence, Lief popped the lock they had worked on the whole time. 

Welcome back everyone! We find you all here in the attic of the bridgeman’s home. There seems to be voices coming from the wall, but you cannot make out where they are. There is a shambling of snagroot sliding in through the window. And Lief, you have just at this moment opened this door. I need you to make me a DC 17 dex saving throw. 


Notes:
Fish painting has nethergloom signature in abyssal

Session 8 Intro:

	Ladies and Gentlemen, today we come together to honor our fallen comrade, Lief Bottom. Lief spent their early life in the farming community of Berronar’s Bosom. Inclined towards all things tricky, Lief set forth on the roguish path. Where Lief’s companions stole for themselves, Lief stole for others, those in need. But then, one night, a botched job, a friend dead. Lief had nothing left but to take to the wilds of Stonegate in search of refuge from the watchful eye of the guardsmen. 

	Lief stared their way pensively through the forest until coming upon the Liren’s Day celebration, where they thought they could finally blend in and rest. Eh, Lief thought that… but it clearly didn’t happen, and the rest is history. 

	*RECORD SCRATCH*
	
	Because he’s dead? And now, our adventurers will have to figure out how to pick the vines out of their cracks before the very floor they stand on comes crashing down around them. 

	*STRETCHHHH*

	Our party is a BIIIIIT thin. 
	We’ve got a crow who couldn’t fly if you put em in an airport (ZING)
	A gnome with a thing for poison ivy (dog panting)
	And a dwarf with less hit points than inches - and you know where I am thinking (BOWONG)

	These bozos somehow smacked down this places door (CRASH), strode over to the fridge (creek) and proclaimed on high that fish was for dinner! 

Oskar, you stand in the flooded bedroom. The painting of the fish lies in front of you ,next to the staff it once yielded. Lik, you find the snagroot which wrapped around you last session is now quickly decaying and sloughing off your body. Russet, you are unconscious, but stable after being hit in the back by a rogue spell. But, even with that, and a companion dying, and another completely tangled in root, and with Oskar at 1 hp, your enemies were defeated and we are officially out of initiative. 

(Claps)

What would you like to do? 

Session Notes 8 - 20230622
Oskar acquires the staff of create water
Painting on the ground
Oskar wakes up Russet with great field dressings
Oskar discovers lief’s form
Liklkvorn briefly revives Lief, who briefly says “I didn’t prepare for this” before dying again
Likkvorn may be getting a big of a god complex, which I love
Russet collects the shards of the mulgogi 
Found note in dresser:
Your contributions are valued. Be at the bridge by noon. 
Found a key to the safe in the basement
Group loots Lief
Russet takes the badge 
Oskar takes the map 
The gang was ambushed by bullywug
Sannil is unconscious, thris is trapped in a barrel
The bullywug raked a knife across oskar, downing them
Russet ganked him immediately
Released Thris 
House coming down in the last 10 mins
Took everyone out the front door
Deciding whether or not to go back inside:
Go back inside, throw lief’s corpse out the window
Hits the bank
Falls into the river
Gang is preparing to put up camp & wait for meeting
In the tree line opposite the bridge
Lik sits on oskar to “keep him warm”
Studies little crystals
Heal up
Plan to go to bridge:
“Little detectives”
Current individual motivations:
Plan:
Finley: Has a really high silly voice
Lik covers in mud and hides at the bridge
The group wears marthommar college purple and gold 
Gives inclination to go to marthommar (could go there)
Finley said : what a waste of time, onto the next batch
Also going to the mayor’s House 
Conversation with Thris:
Revealed that the bullywug didn’t talk


Session 9 Intro - 
	Last time, in Eversland, our players experimented with a single-use crash test dummy

	Welcome back to eversland. Last time, you all wrapped up your experience at the Bridgemans’ house. After finding a suspicious note and gathering Sannil and Thris,  you all headed out.

Session Notes - 7/16/23
Players recount their level up: 
Oskar: 
Exploration + magic in the crystals
Had some new ideas
Can now add more infusions. Can infuse armors 
Can also have more simultaneous infusions 
Can also choose an artificer ‘specialization’ 
Choosing the armorer 
Right now, the armor is manifesting after borrowing a shard of crystal from Likkvorn
Wants to shave the crystal down 
Does so successfully
Using the smith’s tools, Oskar embeds the crystals into the gauntlets and inlays them with copper wire
After smacking with the artificer spice, the crystals now glow and shoot the occasional sparks 
Oskar is practicing his gauntlet hit on Likkvorn 
Hits for 2 dmg. The circuit completes. The punch is light and as the copper connects with his chest that energy is released 
Russet: 
Russet would sleep through oskar’s and Likkvorn’s hooliganism 
Russet is going through a transformation in his sleep
He can feel the spells ‘start to work’ more better 
He can fee the magical abilities course through his veins 
Has metamagic: 
Quickened spell
Twin Spell 
Russet is becoming a bit of a damage dealer 
Still doesn’t understand what they can do completely 
Also feeling a link with the pink crystals. First real object they have investigated and with a full archeological history behind. 
Learning a ‘through line’ in the form of this magical energy radiating from the crystals .
Good motivation for russet to investigate more 
Russet awoken from slumber by the gauntlet punch, thinking it is a storm
Russet has also created a little nest in the lofty area of Cliff’s building
Likkvorn:
Learning a lot from encounters in the bridgeman’s house 
Studying the crystals and the floating painting 
Learning how to apply the little gifts he has picked up along the way to other abilities 
Taking inspiration from living under the ground, and a couple tricks from the “Wiley Spider” learning a couple spells like “spider climb” and “web”
Channeling necromancer studies into manipulating life and senses 
Planning to start experimenting with mobility using things like spider climb 
The night before sleep, He is looking at items he was picking up
Getting ready to go: 
Hears thunderous claps in the distance (simon’s character in the distance) 
Cliff and likkvorn make jokes about many thunderous booms as a fart 
Russet crow doesn’t understand why this is a joke, just farts usually 
Russet imagined famous graphic scroll hero “Bronze Dwarf” (Ironman)
Oskar wants to go investigate, as does russet and likkvorn 
Russet considering experimenting with the snagroot 
Cliff insinuates that he will make his son’s middle name something related to the party
Heading towards the center of town:
In the center of barksbreak
See the decaying snagroot
Around the corner, simon’s character continues to thunderclap 
See simon’s character instrumentally preparing a spell, strumming on strings built into their own body
Seeing simon’s character (Melodious) : 
Described as: 
About 6ft tall
Woody in texture, a silvery woody textured body
Built like a soldier 
He has clothes, but he doesn’t want to be wearing clothes 
Glowy blue crystalline eyes 
Party thinking: 
Oskar: What the hell
Russet: This guy is shiny and confusing 
Lik: interested in the strings which are a part of his body
Strings:
Go down the humanoids lats 
“Chelo chested” 
“Dulcimer chested” 
Experimenting with the vine: 
Raked: rake pulled into the vines
Discussing using crystal:
Shake the vial near the snagroot 
Vines move quickly near the snagroot 
Vines are healed with poison and necrotic damage 
Vines are damaged (x2) with healing 
Destroyed 2sqft section w/ healing word 
Rescuing Melodious: 
Likvorn created dollorous bell removing the vines from Melodious’ feet 
Melodious casts thunder clap, pushing the other vines away and jumping from his captivity
Melodious falls to the ground, getting trapped once more
Meeting Melodious: 
Melodious jumps up and says ‘yeehaw’
Asked who he is: 
Replies bonk, yeehaw, bling, boing, strum
Asked how he got here: 
whisper , whisper 
Description:
Obviously not flesh, wood and brass 
 Oskar takes out his artificer goggles to investigate 
Doesn’t do well but has awesome glasses 
Melodious points to the ‘m-p-0’ on his arm
Oskar calls him ‘Empy’
Ask where he was going: 
Points at the party 
Debating on whether to take him
Empy demonstrates his viability by proving he can be a distraction 
Russet asks if empy knew about the party before the day: 
Says yes
Lik asks if he knows nethergloom
Yes
Russet asks if empy has been following:
Yes
Party figures out where empy met them: 
Asks to point to who he has been following longest: points to all 
Figured out they were followed from timberhold
Have Empy if he pinky promises to not harm the party 
Plan:
Considering praying
Considering going to troll + cave 
Considering learning where the vines are coming from 
Considering entering the chieftain’s mansion 
Players in the church: 
Russet tastes the dirt, rolls arcana 
The party puts Liefs shoes and a picked flower in 
Russet gets an ink well from the cloyster in the back
Russet finds and puts on a ragged holy garb 
Lik is conflicted about stealing from the church
Russet is worried about getting tricked into something
Rusest mentions this place feeling like a sanctuary and feels less menacing. Has to be something that gives off the same vibes
Wants some way to bring the power of berronar with us 
Russet fills ink well with dirt 
Lik and Oskar think that the god abandoned this place 
Likkvorn finds a wheat stalk crown behind a set of 3 small bells 


Ringing the bell: 
Oskar + Empy rung the bell
The sng root receded into the noose bloom, recoiling with each ring
The Chieftain's Mansion: 
Searching study:	
Empy finds: 3 records 
Wisp Rock
Swiftblade Jiggy
Meadowkin meadowkin where are you meadowkin 
Oskar found a book on artificing 
Both found the pile belonging to the bullywug 
Bullywug Escapes: 
The bullywug escaped into the mansion bedroom after being seen by the party
The party is rolling to see if they can make out is nat 20 escape 
Oskar finds the word slimefoot written on the ground 
Oskar goes to the balcony, sees the collapsed bridgeman’s house and the bridge across moradin’s sprue 
Oskar sees the slime on the railing, then looks down to see the bullywug creature 
A chase ensues 


Session 10 Intro:
	
	AI WRITTEN: 
	Reply> In this session, the players recount leveling up their characters and discussing their new abilities and skills. Oskar gets more creative with his infusions and chooses an 'armorer' specialization, while Russet goes through a transformation that enhances his magical abilities and unlocks new spells. Likkvorn, inspired by his encounters in the bridgeman's house, begins to experiment with his mobility using spells like "spider climb" and "web".

The party then encounters a new character, Melodious, a wooden humanoid self-described as a soldier with musical strings built into his body. After rescuing Melodious from some vines, they converse and learn that he has been following them since Timberhold and could potentially be a useful asset to the group.

The party then decides to explore more, consider praying, learn where the vines, that seem to have a life of their own and react to different types of damage and healing, are coming from and consider entering the chieftain’s mansion. They conduct a few experiments with the vines and find that healing damages the vines while poison and necrotic damage heals them.

Russet, Lik, and Oskar agree to venture into the chieftain’s mansion where they find documents revealing more about their surroundings and encounter a bullywug creature. After a brief chase, the creature escapes, leaving them with more unanswered questions.

Overall, the session contributes to the central campaign by deepening the characters' abilities, introducing a new character, uncovering new information, and leaving them on the brink of yet another adventure. The dynamic between party members continues to develop, as do the enigmatic elements of the magical entities in the environment like the snag root and the bullywug.


	ME: 

Last time, in Eversland!... 
Actually, I don’t quite remember. Honestly, I could use a refresher on just about everything…

The story so far: 

	It’s so easy to take magic for granted. When a grog may be chilled with a touch and a life taken with a whisper, magic can feel so powerful; so constant. But we know magic isn’t really like that. Magic is the well which drains with drought and overflows with monsoon. It ebbs and flows, waxes and wanes, and is anything but constant. 

	There are choice times when those gathered around magic’s well may try to dip their buckets in and, depending on the length of their rope, may actually pull something out. When the first buckets begin to disturb those magical waters, we call that The Rippling. 

	Our story takes place in Eversland, a world touched by many Ripplings. The most recent occurred nearly a millennium ago, leading to the events of The Rippled War. Back then, the fledgling city of Stonegate, and the entire province, were nearly destroyed. The forces of Evil, orchestrated by Lich Lord Nethergloom, set on the city. The only thing that stood between Stonegate and devastation, were the Wisps. 

	These stalwart heroes campaigned against Nethergloom’s forces. They rallied what forces they could and they pushed the lich back into the Earth from whence he came. Stonegate was saved, the province was founded, stories were written and pages in the history book continued to turn for 1000 years. Until now. 

	Now it would seem a new rippling is upon us. Nothing is known except that things are changing, and possibly for the worse. Magical abilities are manifesting in a chosen few. Children are going missing across the province, leaving nothing but a cryptic note in their wake. It was in service of these children that you all joined forces and set out from the village of Timberhold. 

You were given your quest by a group of concerned citizens and parents, who were planning on making the trip themselves. You trekked north through the now swampy Emeraldleaf woods, following a set of suspicious footprints. These lead you to the abandoned village of Barksbreak, where two unexpected alliances were forged: one with a halfling family and another with a tribe of bullywug. 

Your connections each confirmed sightings of a cloaked figure, and both pointed you in the direction of the bridgeman’s home. It was there where you uncovered the horror happening to those missing children. A group of bullywug and frog monstrosities, working with a floating painting of a fish known as the Mulgogi, were seemingly preparing these children for some sort of delivery. You prepared to rendezvous at the delivery spot when you realized that a party member, Lief Bottom, had fallen. You decided to take their things and bury them at river, before exiting the bridgeman’s home for good, two rescued children in tow.

You had a brief encounter with whomever had arranged to pick up Mulgogi’s delivery. They noticed something was wrong when they saw the bridgeman’s house fallen to pieces and quickly stole away into the swamp. 

You all made your way back towards Barksbreak where Cliff met up with you and offered you all a place to stay. The next morning, a rhythmic crashing was heard towards the town center and at its site, you discovered Melodious, or as you have started referring to them, Empy. Empy is a warforged bard who had been following the party since Timberhold and had gotten themself snagged. You used the bell of a nearby temple of Berronar to cause all the snagroot to recede into the noosebloom, which granted you access to the Chieftain’s mansion.

You set about exploring the abandoned, much looted and decrepit husk of the mansion. You found some records and interesting books, but potentially obvious signs of danger were overlooked. As Oskar stepped out onto the balcony of the manor, a bullywug creature like those in the bridgeman’s house caught his eye. Oskar lept from the balcony, and a chase is now on! 


Session Notes - 8/11/23:
Gang picks up right where they left off
Bullywug fight:
The creature starts a mad dash away from the party, south
Likvorn hears oscar jump off the balcony, goes to front door to investigate
Casts toll the undead, does 1 hp to the bullywug
Empy jumps off the balcony, falls and lands prone 
Russet joins likkvorn at the entrance of the chieftains manor
Rusest casts ray of sickness on the bullywug
Hits, does half damage due to resistance 
Oskar runs up the party, asks why they are going to try and kill it if it is running away 
Oskar conjures water on top of the creature
Likvorn captures the bullywug with web, which attaches to a tree and entangles the creature 
Empy runs 45 ft closer, ends its turn with a backflip 
Russet dashes up to the creature
Attempts to use a bonus action to calm down the creature with persuasion 
Attempts to croak, only scares more
Likvorn slaps belly
Empy attempts to cast viscous mockery, which fails
Russet casts hold person on the creature
Oskar speaks common, dwarvish, and primordial to the creature, and the creature responds to dwarvish 
Likkvorn tries detect magic, sees necromancy auras
Russet suggests the party discusses what the creature knows about lord nethergloom 
Empy casts suggest, which works, and attempts to communicate that fact to russet, who doesn’t really know what is wanted
Successfully communicated with a roll
Oskar asked the creature what its name was 
Succeeded, creature identified as slimefoot
Creature said it ‘came from mulgogi’ 
Creature leading the party towards the bullywugs
Party gets to the outskirts of the bullywug tribe 
Party suggests they take the bullywug into the tribe and he rejects the idea 
At the bullywug tribe: 
Empy forges ahead, 
Russet offers the creature treats, but the creature is unreceptive 
Russet attempts to carry the creature 
Succeeds, gets the guy on her back
Likvorn smacks his belly and makes him calm down
Empy heads into the village and bullywug stop him at the border
Empy casts vicious mockery on the lead bullywug, the other two lash out doing 18 damage 


Intro - Session 11 

Last time, in Eversland, modern tiny squirmy guy restraining techniques were revolutionized by Russet's Battleworn Bullywug Baby Bjorn.

A Bullywug abomination, which we don’t have a good name for. Bullythug, Gullyjug?  escaped from their hiding spot in the chieftain's manor and started running south. Oskar leapt from the second story balcony and began the pursuit. Rays sickened and bells dolloroused as russet and likkvorn entered the fray. Spells slammed into the fleeing creature while Empy slammed into the ground. The attack ceased when Oskar intervened, and Likkvorn cast web, ensnaring the creature. 

Now gathered around the captured Nullyglug? Gullythug? anyway… now gathered around the creature, who's belly grew ever redder with Likkvorns smacks, you each set about interrogation in your own ways. Russet magically bound the creature and Oskar learned that it responded to the dwarven language and that its name had been Slimefoot. Empy was able to compell it to lead the party to where it came from, and after leashing up your new bully bloodhound mix, you were on your way. 

You arrived at the outskirts of the same bullywug tribe who had helped you before leaving for the Bridgeman’s house. While everyone else fashioned the next big thing in squirmin sequirin, Empy approached the camp. Three guardwugs greeted Empy with speer formation and Empy attempted to intimidate the leader with a spell of Vicious Mockery. Empy was hopped upon by the two unattacked, whos spears nearly felled our Bard. 

This is where we find you all now. Empy you are in combat with these three creatures. The rest of the party is 40 ft away. Slimefoot is strapped to Russet’s back but continues to struggle. You know that a struggle is occurring but no specific details otherwise. Let’s roll initiative!

Session Notes - 8/17/23
Bullywug fight: 
Empy heals self
Knocked unconscious by attack of opportunity when turning to flee
Gang considering to team up with the lich
Probably not serious
Russet offered the bullywug a blue mushroom after the two talked at each other without understanding in their own tongue
Now they are being led towards the village center by the bullywug
Lik attempts to medicine heal unconscious empy, but rolls a 6 and forces a death save
Empy fails his save with a 1, so the shock caused by lik’s poor roll pops one of the strings on his dulcimer 
The 
Bullywug Tribe
The gang is lead in, meet with the chieftain
Talk about felling the bridgemans house
Mulgogi
Talk about killing the noosebloom
Chieftain talks about exiling the party because of the noosebloom
The chieftain talks about the tribe dissolving and most of them falling to the elements and predators 
The party is considering blasting them all, shoot that down
Russet suggests bringing the abomination to the university
Lik suggests using it as a bargaining chip
Reveal the bullywug abomination who the tribe recognize 
slimefoot is approached by Mudskipper
Simefoot stares down somewhat comprehending 
Empy rolls very well and pursuades the bullywugs into forgiving the attack
The party ask if they have a healer, but the tribe says they would have no idea how to heal the horrible abomination before them
Lik pursuades the tribe to unexile them 
Likvorn theorizes that Slimefoot has been ‘combined’ with another creature, perhaps a dwarven child, and suggests an exorcism to split them 
Lik asks how they can help Slimefoot if they are in exile 
Lik smacks slimefoots belly after getting nowhere 
Party asks about marthommar:
Translator tells the party to find hamblin booknose at the ‘rusty spear’ and drop the translator’s name
Party compelled by mudskipper (slimefoot’s gf) to bring him home safe
Agrees to take slimefoot with them onn their travel 
Figuring out what to do after the tribe: 
Considering whether or not to go to marthommar 
Likvorn calls Slimefoot a liability, correctly
The tribe offer to look after the bullywug but the party decline
The tribe offer a wagon 
The party is offered the chieftain’s wagon which they cannot pull 
They investigate and find a gilded jewelery box with 3 jeweled necklaces worth 30GP
Likvorn buys a bullywug to common dictionary for 5gp from the translator
Russet is given a dried lilly pad
Rusest learns the word for brother in bullywug is ‘bruaaaaa’
The party heads back to cliffs: 
Retrieve the kids
Who is in charge of slimefoot: 
Empy is tasked with dragin the waggon 
Likvorn hangs out in the waggon 
Path home: 
Oskar + sannil 
Empy pushes slimefoot with likkvorn at the side
Russet + thris pull up the rear 
Midnight on the way home:
Decide to make camp for the evening 
Ruset finds a great spot to camp
Oskar makes a fire
Party suggests empy stay up and watch but likvorn is suspicious 
Empy creates a thunderclap which luckily doesn’t alert nearby predators 
The Next day: 
Russet + lik investigate Slimefoot’s mouth
They find that he has a digestive system but it appears mismatched and not the same system he was born with 
This is an artifact of the unification
At timberhold: 
The party considers walking straight in, not hiding from the guards 
They continue to walk into the village
Notice that there are no guards at the outskirt of the village 
Likvorn hears the commotion in the center of town and alerts the party
Russet suggests stealth 
The party sees the gathered crowd, opts to skirt around to not be seen
The party “stashes slimefoot by a house” 
The party rolls horribly on their stealth and is encountered by peakin landmar 
PARTY CONSIDERING GOING TO MARTHOMMAR TO INVESTIGATE SLIMEFOOT
THEN I COULD HAVE THEM LEARN ABOUT FINLEY !!!!!
They could investigate Slimefoot and be pointed in a professor of finley’s direction 




Intro - Session 12: 

	Last time, in the land of Evers, we learned that Empy got quite the wagon they’re draggin, and it is full of a bullywug abomination and god we hope he doesn’t get loose!

	We started last session near Barksbreak. Empy had just provoked the bullywug guardsmen protecting their tribe, but the bullywug made swift work of the automaton. They remained defensive until Russet gifted them a small blue mushroom they had picked. Satisfied with the offering, the group was led down the familiar path to the heart of the bullywug tribe. 

	There, the party divulged all matter of drama they had been caught up in, from the dangers of the bridgeman’s house to the floating fish painting known as the Mulgogi. All was well until the party described the impromptu weeding work they had done killing the large Noosebloom attached to the Barksbreak Chieftain’s Manor. At this, the Bullywug tribal leader grew solemn, reminding the party that the tribe relied on this plant for sustenance. Without it, the tribe would surely need to disperse. 

	This act of perceived betrayal nearly lead to the party’s banishment from the bullywug tribe, but you were able to grease your way back into their good graces after revealing Slimefoot, tied to Russet’s back. Even though this creature is surely a husk of its former self, Slimefoot was immediately recognized by those in the tribe. When you asked whether they had seen an ailment like that afflicting the creature, the tribal leader reported that they had never beheld horrors like those before them.

	From the crowd of onlookers came Mudskipper, Slimefoot’s broodmommy, who’s interaction with Slimefoot spurred some sort of dumb recognition from the creature. Tumult only grew as plans were formed. You all decided to hold onto Slimefoot with the goal of traveling to the University city of Marthommar in search of answers. The bullywug translator, Ribbit, suggested you meet with one of his old drinking buddies, Hamblin Booknose, at the “Rusty Spear” as he may be able to point (heh) you in the right direction. As you gathered yourselves and set off, Mudskipper compelled you all to bring slimefoot home safe. 

	Finally, you set out from the tribe to collect Sannil and Thris, the two children you had originally set out to find in the north Emeraldleaf woods. You found them safely at Cliff’s, where you exchanged one final round of jokes with Marlene and set out. A day’s journey was traveled, a camp was made, and a quest was concluded as you arrived back at the town of Timberhold, but something was different. 

	No guards patrolled the road leading north, out of town, and as you grew closer to the heart of the village, more signs of unrest could be seen. You stashed Slimefoot haphazardly and began traveling towards the source of the commotion. In the middle of town, on the stage set up next to the Szafirleśny, is Froulim Opalbrow, clearly galvanizing an agitated and worried populace with concerns of missing children and encroaching danger. 

	As you took this in, Russet felt a tap on their shoulder and turned around to see the familiar face of Bogwatch Tadpole, Peakin Landmar. Relieved to see the four of you safe and sound, Peakin described the sorry state of affairs in town. He detailed how the townspeople were growing ever uneasier in your absence, and how they had been directing that anger towards town Chieftain, Har Barkem. Har has been holed up in his manor for 2 days so far, and doesn’t show any signs of leaving. And what’s more, Peakin found something. Guarding the Szafirlesny, Peakin felt something reach out to him, and uncovered what seems to be a letter and map created by fabled sorcerer Liren Meadowkin! 

	And it is here we find you now, having just read over the letter’s contents. Liren seems to think Lord Nethergloom may have returned, and has tasked you four unlikely heroes with doing something about it. To that end, Liren has revealed the locations of two artifacts he described as being useful in penetrating the Swallowed Swamp and felling Nethergloom a millenia ago. And what’s more, Russet has a piece of this map thought lost centuries ago! 

	With that, I ask: what would you all like to do!?

Session Notes - 2023-09-14: 
Meeting Isra: 
Oskar grabs Isra by the throat after seeing her, clearly feeling betrayed after she left before going to rescue Sannil
Isra announced her reason for leaving, looking for animals to talk to and getting lost from the group
Isra hands a rock she found to Lik, who chucks it into the woods 
Confronting the Crowd:
Oskar plans to approach the stage with Sannil in tow
But the crowd notices the party noticing Isra and the commotion dies down
Oskar drags Sannil into the crowd, reuniting with his father
The party is hailed as heroes, which gives the crowd the first glimpse of hope in a while
The party agrees to help confront Har Barkem
Froulim tells the crowd that they are strong together
Oskar imparts the impending doom, and encourages the townspeople to be safe and wary 
Returning to slimefoot
A couple has found slimefoot underneath the blanket
The party intimidates the couple, who recede into their home
Empy grabs the wheelbarrow and begins to wheel it 
Heading to the wood cutter’s lodge 
Meet up with Peakin
He wants to know what is in the wheelbarrow 
Sees it, is extremely freaked out 
Lik intimidates peakin into calming down
Lik agrees to join the team, has great reverence for hte team
Wants to know the team name: 
Peakin pies
The deep state
“The They” 
Oskar shows peakin his gloves , asks if he wants to see how they work 
Lik gives Peakin Lief’s old shoes 
Arriving at the Woodcutter’s Lodge; 
Russet suggests bringing slimefoot into the lodge
Isra calls it a “Barrel Baby” 
Empy considers removing slimefoot from the wheelbarrow and swaddling
Empy attempts to pick up the wheelbarrow but fails 
Empy casts thunderclap, people take damage, a window of the lodge is shattered 
Harmben opens the front door, profers everyone inside 
Lik ponders joining forces with Isra and Oskar to attempt to fix empy
Tukaed
Gives 50 GP
Gives horses
Gives scrolls
Empy nabs 1 while Lik attempts to get all 3. Lik is left with 2. Empy grabs Misty Step. 
Dodraet communicates that the party should seek her out when returning, at which point she will gift them their base 
Froulim has described the situation with the chieftain’s Manor
Has described Har not helping 
Lik has a plan: 
Get peakin involved, rally guards to try to make a commotion at the front 
Distract guards at the front gate
Go in through the back
Mason chimes in 
Presents the problem with his explosives being inacessible 
Peakin chimes in: 
Says he cannot likely rally many bog watch
Russet suggests getting bog watch uniforms 
Peakin says he could take the shift of a bog watch 


	
Intro - Session 13

	Our previous session began as the party arrived in Timberhold during a time of upheaval. Forulim Opalbrow rallied concerned citizens while stood center stage in the town square. Her impassioned speech was cut short, however, as Oskar revealed himself and the party to the gathered masses. Their confusion turned to recognition turned to celebration as Oskar’s Father, Orsik, recognized his son and daughter, Sannil, home safe. 

	In the ensuing fervor, the party were pulled on stage and celebrated for their good deeds. Not since the time of the last rippling had a band of adventurers come together to accomplish something so significant. Forulim implored upon the crowd that relying on a band of rogue adventurers may not be a good long term plan, but it may very well work in the short. Forulim asked you each if you would assist in discovering why no help had found its way to Timberhold, why it seemed like no one cared that people were going missing, and why Har Barkem, chieftain of Timberhold, wasn’t giving those answers. Each of you agreed, in turn, and with that, the rally ended. 

	You dispersed to recover Slimefoot, who you had haphazardly stashed near a random building. You shoo-ed away a concerned couple and went about your business. On your way to the Woodcutter’s Lodge, Peakin Landmar caught up with you. Intimidated by Likkvorn and Oskar, and generally in awe of the four of you, Peakin swore allegiance to your group and offered to do nearly anything in his power to help you on your quest. 

	With this you found yourselves at the Woodcutter’s Lodge. Inside, you were given the situation. Har Barkem is holed up in his manor, and has been now for two days. Attempts to discuss with the chieftain have failed and the townspeople are left with few options. You were given an overview of the guard patrol, building layout, and general atmosphere. You set about making your plans, and it is here we find you now. With this, please let me know if you have any questions, ideas, thoughts, or requests! 

Session Notes - 9/28/23
At the lodge: 
Considering using fireworks to cause distraction
Considering getting townspeople involved
Russet suggests getting a guillotine 
Oskar suggests just talking to the mayor and not starting a riot 
“If incompetency is deserving of capital punishment, you should have been dead a long time ago” 
Peakin suggests not starting violence:
Oskar + lik tell him to shut up
He says “sorry sir” 
Lik rolling to learn if there are any one higher than the bogwatch 
Granite Inquisitors 
What do granite inquisitors look like: 
Wear belts that have a large granite buckle 
Uniforms are made to look like rock, those with higher rank are given more intricate and rock-like uniforms 
Lik suggests they get the town involved
Or sneaking in back
Russet suggests another disguise 
Lik suggests using spider climb to get onto the balcony 
Peakin chimed in and confirmed that it would take a lot to get the guards to move away from the back door 
Plan to approach the chieftain manor: 
1) Approach front door
2) likkvorn approaches side, attempts to sneak up onto the balcony 
3) The people at the front door create a gnarly distraction:
Harmben recognizes Empy, announces that he is the chieftain’s jukebox
Forulim asks if the party trusts the players
The party says NO
Asks if they think he will betray them
Maybe
Considers that it may be spying for the chieftain 
Suggests he is using confusing language to deceive 
Lik investigates Empy and finds his missing voice box 
Oskar fixes his voice box with a crit, so I am giving Empy 30 words / short rest 
Ontamontapia don’t count
6 words used
7, 
8, 10, 11
Empy reveals that his real name is Melodious 
Party asks why empy was following: 
Empy says to help them
Russet asks why he was following them specifically
New Plan: 
1) Someone (Oskar) is returning the jukebox to the mayor
2) Lik + russet get to the roof
3) oskar suggests charming both the people in the back
Forulim suggests following the party as they head out to the manor:
Oskar failed a dc 15 persuasion check to convince forulim to not follow
Forulim, Orsik, Ridden will follow
Lik now suddenly suggests riding in Russet’s shoulders 
Arrival at the Chieftain’s Manor: 
The party arrives at the bottom of the hill, on the cobblestone path 
Oskar + empy approach the front door
Russet + lik sneak into the forest 
Lik automatically spotted by the watch
Empy retrieves Lik
Harren has explained that Chieftain is not allowing people in 
Oskar suggests that Harren have an obligation to the people to protect
Harren is firmly 
Oskar talks with Harren Pteri: 
Attempts to convince harren to let the players through
None of the attempts land
Empy emotes towards russet, who is hiding in the brush
Harren notices the emoting 
Russet investigates and finds the frogs in the woods near the north of the chieftain’s manor 
Russet also correctly identifies the frogs and finds a small bag of 5gp
Likkvorn suggests empy strike a chord and cast thunderclap 
Empy suggests casting suggestion
It fails 
Oskar rolls general insight
Sees the guards are sleepy
The team reconvenes at the start: 
Oskar wonders what the plan is
Oskar suggests we want to ‘stop death’
Oskar wonders if they should convince the townspeople to stop getting angrier 
Empy suggests that the chieftain may be dead and harren has taken over
Russet lets the party know about the nearby frog, no signs of necromancy 
Richard is getting upset and discouraged by a single failure, wants to move onto marthommar 
Oskar suggests:
Not confident about mayor rn
Go to marthommar first
Calm down the townspeople in the interim 
Come back to the quest when they return 
Russet agrees 
Returning to the woodcutters lodge: 
Lik says the town is in trouble 
Makes an impassioned plea for the town to riot, fails performance 
Russet says ‘all should croak or fly together’
Must succeed in goal: goal is to rid the chieftain from his hidey hole 
Don’t need to do so with a riot, rather work together as a town on surrounding the chieftain’s house 
Russet asks if the party wants to stay and help the town
Oskar says: 
Doesn’t seem like the town wants a riot 
Forulim implores upon the party that the town needs answers now and they cannot wait for a round 
Asks the party definitively if they are willing to help 
Sees a lot of non-commitment 
Likkvorn says “riot” 
Empy makes a picket sign: “The Mayor’s Mansions is Unfair. Har Barkem is in There” 
Plan 3: 
1 -> Have people hit pots and pans, try to pull bogwatch around to front, sneak in through back door
2 -> Charm people at the back door, try to sneak in 
3 -> set the house on fire 
Russet suggests starting a fire in the cellar
Lik continues to riot for “going in hot” 
Lik is a proponent of “setting the house on fire” 
NOTE: They do seem concerned about the consequences of their actions, which is good to see.
NOTE: If the party attempts to kill the guards after being shown that they are reasonable, normal people that will DEFINITELY be a bad mark
Fire Plan: 
Attempt to ferret people out using fire
Make it seem like they are helping those attempting to run from the flames 


	

Intro - Session 14
	Our previous session started off at the Woodcutter’s Lodge, our party gathered around a table discussion their plans for infiltrating the Timberhold Chieftain’s Manor in an effort to question Har Barkem. A clear divide split the group, with Likkvorn seeking violence, and the rest of the party attempting to find a safer solution. You discussed sneaking in, assassination, guillotines, disguises, riots and explosions. In the end, you settled on walking up to the front door and asking nicely to be let in.

	Before exiting, Lik and Oskar examined Empy’s electric equivocator, expertly elucidating each issue. With a wire de-loosened here and a socket sprocketed there, Empy was imbued with a renewed ability to speak, but only for a short moment. The repairs gave Empy the ability to speak 30 words / long rest, but the help of someone more capable will be required to completely fix the problem. 

	Outside the chieftain’s manor, another plan was hatched. Lik and Russet would keep to the outskirts while Oskar and Empy approached the front. It wasn’t long, however, before Lik was spotted by the guards, who called him over. Oskar made an impassioned plea to Bog Watch Head Toad Harren Petri, imploring the guardsmen to look out for the people of Timberhold. Frogmatic in his beliefs, though, Harren was convinced that following Har’s orders to keep the public out was the best way to accomplish Oskar’s request. During this time, unseen in the woods, Russet got a clear view of the western side of the manor, and identified a small group of giant frogs near the manor’s back. With nothing else, the party left. 

	Back at the Woodcutter’s lodge, more plans were considered. Empy began dismantling a chair to construct a picket sign. Lik, still blood thirsty, attempted to spur the crowd with an impassioned plea for violence, but his cries of leadership fell on deaf ears. The party was in a limbo. Forulim Opalbrow has communicated that the town is at a turning point. If the town’s people have too much more time to boil, their pot just may run over, into untold consequences. 

	At this point, at the top of the session, let’s start by getting an idea of where each of your characters are at. Please take your backstories into account. Take a moment to recall your motivations and your goals. Let’s outline where you can go, what you can do, and what you want to do. <ROLL 1d4>: 1=ben, 2=leticia, 3=simon, 4=richard and have them go first. 

	Share as much or as little about your character and motivations as possible, but at the least, put forth what you would like to accomplish in the very near term. 


Session Notes - 2023-10-05
Having the characters reseat their motivations: 
Ben / Oskar: 
More concerned about town than what is going on with the mayor
He doesn’t want to have a riot
He wants to keep the status quo 
Feeling confident after the quest
Think I can solve every problem with my noggin
Leticia / Russet: 
Feels a little lost in the sauce
A little bit like they are uncertain whether or not to continue on this track if they aren’t able to complete the mission that they are out in the woods to complete  (finding interesting objects for their tribe) 
They are at a stall 
They aren’t sure if they are going to have friends by the end of this 
Worried that the team won’t stay together
Bit confused about whether or not this is a part of their journey or a distraction. 
Want to stay for the moment and see how things go 
Simon / Empy: 
Still very interested in helping these people
Want to prove they can be a vital unit in a group
With the recent fixing of their voice, maybe they can have more of a motivation to get more fixed 
Richard / Likkvorn: ‘
Being someone who has spent a lot of time under ground and in the shadows, he is a bit power hungry
Wants to ‘crack a few eggs’ 
Wants to learn more to become more skilled in magicks 
The motivation to get to the college is big, have something to learn about with the little monster 
Also har barkem seems to be in cohorts with the necromancer, Nethergloom, or someone associated with it 
Want to see what they can learn from him 
Feeling ‘crushed’ by getting caught feels kind of silly and embarrassing 
Would feel motivated by impassioned speech from a group member or NPC 
Likvorn leans towards getting to the college 
In the tavern: 
Oskar has a plan: 
It was a good idea to go find the alchemist and to see if they have anything that can help you 
I think we should go through the back and at night
Should take a wider berth in
Also suggests investigating the big frogs from behind the manor
“Kick some frog ass” 
Possibly hide in a food delivery 
Russet suggests: 
Getting more information about the woods 
Could go to clothing store for dark clothing 
Oskar’s family delivers food 
OSKAR LORE: Old man Garrick - old teacher who taught the lore of timberhold 
The party goes shopping:
Oskar goes to jeweler / blacksmith 
Sells his three necklaces + gilded box for 18 gp (6g / necklace)
Russet buys a rouge’s outfit for 1gp
Gives +1 for stealth checks in forest 
Lik bought a ranger’s cloak for 1gp
Dark green trim with light green + brown woven texture, forest hemp 
Gives +1 to stealth checks in forest 
Empy buys pirate outfit, travelers cloak, 
Party goes to Sylvia’s Stuff:
Meets sylvia, the crunchy wide eyed girl who owns things
She gives a mask to russet for 5sp
She offers to buy forest reagents from the players 
Lik buys scroll of pass without trace, potion of invisibility and scroll of speak with animals 
SIDE QUEST: Gompren of the wood:
Threatening sylvia with violence
Sylvia told the players they had a falling out 
In 5 days will come and kidnap Sylvia, prompting the players to find her if they ever wish to get her cool spells again 
Ben purchases the dwarven chainmail for 75g
Has disadvantage on stealth checks 
He makes his artificer armor in the forge 
He adds the dire boar logo as a patch on the right arm 
Evening in timberhold: 
Returned to the woodcutter’s lodge 
Oskar suggests looking at the frogs and sneaking in tonight 
Wants to kill the frog
Lik suggests going into the manor complete invisible 
Empy suggests pretending to return himself and 
Russet suggests the frog may have something to help 
Lik deciding which spell to learn from his spells 
They are also thinking the worst of the frogs, assuming they must be evil
Lik says that it feels like they are becoming friends 
Russet likes hearing that out loud 
Encounter with the frogs: 
These frogs have been pushed out of the north emeraldleaf woods and they cannot move into timberhold
They are looking for refuge and have found themselves burrowed near the small stream north of the chieftain’s manor 
Party heads out, greases Russet’s beak 
Empy uses their arm pit grease 
The party sneaks out to the frogs
Sneaks, oskar and lik roll very poorly
Alert the frogs
Lik rolls dc 10 nature check:
Notices that the frogs are nested in the thicket
Seems like the frogs are not nested in a usual spot
Lik finds that there is no acrid goo on the creatures 
Russet suggests they may not be touched by evil
Oskar suggests that they will not attack if they are not dangerous 
Russet suggests that the frog community was being attacked by the evil forces, and may think that someone approaching is an another attacker
Lik casts speak with animals on self 
Approaching the frogs: 
Lik rolls dc 5 persuasion check 
FAILS
Inspiration 
Fails again 
Frogs run away 
Don’t attempt to follow
Lik investigates the nest, finds 3 tadpole eggs
Opts to leave them there 
Russet suggests leaving a good message, a gift
And something to tell them we want to chat if they choose 
Oskar suggests they could have a frog pet:
Russet says they already have one, he is in their wheel barrow 
Lik finds a bunch of worms to use as a gift for the frogs
Suggests weaving them into some sort of form 
The party leaves worms in a little bowl and hopes the frogs come back 
Approaching the chieftain’s manor 
The party approaches from the place russet snuck to 
Lik casts fog cloud closest to the building
Russet casts pass without trace from the scroll
The party approaches
The fog cloud makes people blind,
One guard notices the fog cloud 
Empy suggests casting suggestion on the guard to leave 
The party dislikes this 
Empy also suggests tasha’s hideous laughter
Party dislikes
Lik suggests mage hand
Russet suggests prestidigitation 
I simply suggest they go around the fog and keep it between them and teh guard who has seen them 

Intro - Session 15

A ring of exterior torches illuminates the facade of Har Barkem’s manor, setting it against the cloudy autumnal night sky. Har, The Chieftain, has not been seen by anyone but the guards in two days. Maybe he is hiding from the townspeople or maybe something more sinister is afoot. 

You find yourself huddled in the manor’s stables, surrounded by dank hay and the smell of use. Looking out, up the path towards the manor’s eastern side, you see where the path forks, leading left and right, as its original trajectory terminated at the woodwork of a deck. Looking left, towards the front of the building, you see two guards stationed, weary but watching. 

The wizard begins muttering his incantation, summoning forth a mist from the earth which rises first as small grasping hands before filling the area with fog so dense, nothing can be seen through it. Your path towards the manor has been obscured. With this, and a quick bit of discourse, you begin to move towards the back of the manor, keeping the fog on your left as you do. 

As you round the corner, you 

It is here we find you now. Welcome back everyone. What would you like to do? 

Session Notes - 2023-10-12
Outside Har’s Manor: 
The group approaches the north wall to the building
Looks up to see a window
Empy rolls an 8 on a dc7 history check to remember the layout of the mansion
Revealed a lot of information about the map 
Lik proposes spider climb on the most capable person to tie a knot
Warn about concentration on fog cloud 
The party easily sneaks up to the side of the deck 
Climbs up to the deck 
Huddles in a corner 
Lik breaks concentration on fog cloud which dissipates and casts spider climb
Russet begins climbing the wall with a rope, which he pre-knots 
Russet gets to the second story, hears har mumbling inside 
Russet rolls a nat 20 on their perception check and sees: 
Har
Guard
Har writing letters to stonegate asking for personal help 
Har has a set of keys
Russet descends and communicates everything they saw
Team considering entering through the first floor
Team considering charming the guard on the 2nd floor 
Team considering charming the guard to go to the other guards and tell them that he is covering their shift at Har’s behest 
Considering charming the guard and then hopping down on the balcony 
Oskar considers: 
One charms har
Another charms the guard
Lik says we have two options: 
1) charm guard thru window, get on roof, stealth, balcony, door
2) come back down to the ground, go around, charm both front guards (hopefully) then climb up to the balcony from there 
Oskar suggests charming har to let us inside 
THEY AREN”T GOING TO GO WITH THIS WHY???
They are saying they should go through downstairs 
Getting onto the manor: 
Russet climbs up the side of the wall
Russet attempts to charm the guard, fails 
Russet climbs onto the roof, passes stealth
Ties rope around chimney 
The party tries to climb the rope (DC 10): 
Empy: 
Succeeds easily
Lik: 
Fails 
Oskar crits, carries lik and places him on the roof 
On the roof: 
The party sneaks over to the top of the roof where they can look down onto the balcony 
Russet sees another guard on the first floor 
Party looks for how to get onto the balcony, see a wooden lattice: 
Medium creatures on the lattice will break 
Empy rolls to look for a place to secure the rope 
Fails
Uses inspo, succeeds
Finds place which is weak, would fall with greater than small creature 
Does so
Lik goes down lattice
Empy + oskar descend the rope 
Party notices harren petri below the balcony 
Manor 2nd Floor: 
Party at the balcony
Enter his bedroom
Oskar finds wall safe
Lik remembers har’s keys 
Lik finds the “sigil of the chieftain” 
NOTE: SIGIL OF THE CHIEFTAIN - 
Takes it 
Lik remembers potion of invisibility 
Talking about charm again
Talking about suggest again
“Dont want him to yell”
Suggest charming har again
Suggest prestidigitate wind and throw the door open while lik drinks his invis potion 
Entering the study:
Lik drinks invis potion 
Rushes in while oskar casts prestidigitate to make a gust of wind
Har tells the guard to investigate teh door
Lik loses invis, casting charm person on the guard, succeeds
Russet runs out of the bedroom, yelling surprise, and casting charm person, success
Russet + oskar + guard + har x2 drink shot
The party interrogates har:
He confesses his memory issues 
Learns about his letters for help 
Learns about the magic items 
Thinks that he is trying to get help
Russet suggests findin g who is helping har make decisions 
Marsilius - owner of the logging co who whispers in har’s ear 
The gang gets har’s letter stamp and signature on a piece of paper 
The gang puts har to bed
The gang opens har’s safe after russet sleight of hands the keys 
The gang steals the letter to stonegate 
Lik thinks that the letters aren’t getting to stonegate 
Empy doesn’t think that the chieftain is telling the truth and it is just the dementia getting in the way
CORRECT
THe gang russet takes the wine and the gold and the deed to the royal wagon 
Read the letter: 
Har says that “this cannot go on any longer”
Har says that he must demand help from the granite inquisitors for the town
The letter was stashed under neath everything, purposefully 
Session end 

Post session note: 
Lik thinks har is not bad, something else is stopping the letters
Russet agrees
Empy thinks that har is incompetent and has sent fewer letters than he meant to 
Russet asks why the letter would be hidden like it was? 
Empy says “people with dementia just do shit” 
Oskar suggests looking at the letters that he has gotten back

Intro - Session 16

A leaf crunches under the bard’s varnished toe as he hoists himself onto a cold wooden deck. He and his comrades step with magically noiseless footsteps as they huddle into a hidden corner of the wall. The chieftain’s manor looms. Webs creep down the gnome wizard’s long white beard as he mutters quietly. Those webs spindle their way from his fingertips, leaping to those of the kenku sorcerer. The cloaked kenku begins shuffling up the wall with ease, finding a slotted window slightly open, just enough to see inside. With knowledge of the building, a plan is hatched.

A rope, illuminated by torch light, sails over the edge of the roof. A beak and a single avian eye follow, observing their toss’ trajectory. The bard scrambles up while the wizard is hoisted by the magically armored dwarven artificer. The creeping continues until the four step onto the balcony, and into the second story.

Har’s Bedroom sits vacant, weakly illuminated by the torches outside. Naturally, drawers start opening. You find a torch that can be turned on and off with a motion, a hidden safe, and looking deftly, The Sigil of Timberhold, a sacred bobble in the line of succession of the village, created in the last rippling. Pocketing these things and more, you head out to do what you came here to do. 

A bottle of clear, nearly imperceptible liquid is pulled from the wizard’s pouch and as he drinks it, he fades into the dark of the room, invisible. The air warps and crinkles as sorcerer, artificer, and wizard all prepare to cast. The wizard rushes from the room as artificer summons forth a gust. Surprise in the room and a guard is charmed. Bursting from the darkness of his own chambers, a hooded bird runs towards Har Barkem, chieftain of Timberhold, and yells “surprise”. He is charmed as well. The most surprising party in history is underway.

Drinks make their rounds and double for Har. You lube him up to make your task a bit easier. You are here on behest of the people and have come to learn why nothing is being done about the clear and present dangers. To assist further, the wizard uncorks another strangely blown bottle and his temples begin to throb. He touches Har, literally and metaphorically, connecting his mind to the chieftain’s. Inside, you find a fragmented, mix of thoughts from one clearly in the throws of Thought Loss. 

With this in mind, your interrogation proves mostly successful. You learn that Har recalls sending several letters to Stonegate. In return, Stonegate had informed him that, due to a spreading thin of their own forces, they would be unable to assist. Har also mentioned receiving several small magical trinkets along with these return letters. 

Satisfied with the information gathered, you put Har to Bed. You pocketed Har’s letter stamp, a piece of paper with his name on it, and his keys, which you used to open the safe you found in his room. Inside you found 2 bottles of elven wine and the deed to the royal wagon, which you took. Finally, you uncovered a letter, stashed beneath everything else, which Har seemed to have written to Stonegate. The letter demanded help and called for an end to Stonegate’s ambivalence and yet, it seems unsent. 

With this, we find you here, The party is gathered around the safe in Har barkem’s bedroom. A warm light pours in from the study and you can hear the guard you charmed clinking glasses as he reaches for the whiskey bottle. What would you like to do? 

Session Notes - 10-26-23
Har Barkem Post:
Consider har more senile than malignant 
Russet doesn’t think he is fit to rule
Lik thinks it is the “lesser of two evils, har or a necromancer” 
DM NOTE: lol there is more evil afoot
Russet suggests bringing the letter to stonegate
Considering forging his signature on the letter to stonegate 
Still wanting to go to marthommar 
Still wondering if someone intercepted the letters
Empy doubles down on senile 
Lik grabs the nearest pen
Waking har up to sign the letter:
Lik fails to wake har up with a dc 10 performance check
Har would fail to recognize the letter if woken 
The party considering casting mending on th letter to join the signature and the letter 
The party attempting to join two disjoint pieces of paper with mending:
Mending cantrip isn’t that powerful, dc 22
Russet wakes him up and convinces har to sign the letter
Oskar takes the letter 
The party considering walking out of the front door 
Party considering sneaking out 
Lik recommends looting 
Oskar takes another shot 
Oskar steals letters from stonegate communicating the state of affairs 
Asks if they have his signature 
Lik suggests that what they have done here tonight doesn’t look very good (ie breaking into the manor) 
The party talks with the guard a bit 
The party gets him drunk, makes him throw up, he yells with excitement with the party, and passes out
The party bolts 
Oskar jumps from the roof with the rope and creates a crater in the deck
The party escapes
After Har: 
Lik doesn’t think that they have learned anything
Richard is bad at lateral thinking
Russet suggests that they get someone to help Har
Lik suggests Peakin Landmar 
Russet suggests Forulim 
At the Drakes Flank: 
Oskar gets stew and serves the rest of the party 
Description of the establishment:
Classic dnd tavern
Got a fire, which is dying down due to the time of night
Bunch of tables, and doesn’t smell like beer on the floor 
Has a bard stage in one corner
Kitchen and bar in back 
What are we going to do: 
Oskar suggests they did everything to stop the riot 
Lik suggests that the town will calm down, but they will become a bit more frustrated with stonegate 
Lik wants to learn more about the necromancer
Wants to get hands a little dirty on that 
Oskar also interested in the necromancer + swamp
Also interested in stopping riot
Mostly interested in marthommar 
Russet is interested in the secret artifacts that they just got
Lik suggests keeping the letters to stonegate just in case
If they are going to drive the conspiracy about someone intercepting letters, they will want to keep them on hand 
Lik doesn’t necessarily care about the town
The party seem to be interested in keeping the chieftain in care
Lik says a riot may be good because it could uproot the old chieftain, put in their own guy, and have a unified goal
Suggests getting peakin as a puppet leader (lolol) 
Ask about royal succession:
Familial
Ask if har has any heirs 
No 
Lik doubles down on a people’s revolt 
Empy says they could investigate what is going on in stonegate:
Lik says “corruption”
Oskar suggests going to stonegate to convince the lord chieftain to appoint another chieftain 
The party sleeping 
Long rest
The new day:
Considering going to talk to Old Man Garrick 
Sending sannil and Outhild to go find him and forulim 
Returning to the woodcutters lodge: 
Slimefoot escape: 
In the night, because he isn’t tended to, slimefoot escapes this morning 
Oskar takes the pitchfork from harmben and pins slimefoot into the corner 
Empy plays a lullaby on his dulcimer
Fails 
Slimefoot successfully escapes from being restrained and runs into the field 
Lik casts ‘tashas hideous laughter’ and successfully incapacitates the creature 
Initiative ends
The party finds that slimefoot likely escaped due to all the miscare 
Talking with Forulim:
Forulim heard through the grapevine that they broke into the chieftain manor 
Lik attempts to galvanize the crowd of the woodcutters lodge into going outside. 
Utterly fails 
Continues to try to keep things oing
Still thinks that everyone is in for people’s revolt 
Russet joins Lik outside and asks ‘what’s up’
Lik thought that they wanted everyone to know
“Not getting any help from the mayor, not getting any help from stonegate” 
Oskar communicates Har’s senility
Communicates his worry about himself over the town’s safety
Communicates about the magic items 
Takes out lords letter, shows how stonegate isn’t helping 
Forulim suggests that har is being placated by stonegate 
The party is out of ideas 
Forulim suggests speaking with the guard about the senility
Forulim asks oskar if she can have the letter 
Using the letter, she will show this to the people of timberhold as evidence that they are at the behest of Stonegate
They dont 
Slimefoot = gullyjug
Oskar buys a horse maintenance kit for 1 gp
The party is headed to the stables to 



