The Swallowed Swamp

Creatures: 
Crocagators
Combined crocodile + alligator
Fierce bite
Large in their matured state
Docile unless hungry or threatened 
Will-o'-the-wisps
Small aural creatures which lure players towards danger
Recommended to not follow, however their lairs can be filled with all sorts of interesting loot
They also secrete a valuable substance which coats the walls of their lairs, which can be used to craft potions 
Bog witches
Stirges
Blood sucking tiny bat-like creatures 
See Official DND 5e Stat Block
Giant Leeches 
See DND stat block in Appendix 
Muck Sparkle Scuddlers (Lightning Crawdads)
Crawdads which burrow in the mud, and leave their backs to the sky
Any creature in their vicinity can get a deadly shock, which they use for hunting
Hunters say: “Don’t Be a fool! If it shines in the sludge, don’t trudge!”
Water moccasins:
Large snakes which slither through the muddy water
Extremely poisonous, but can be harvested for their glands
Swamp rats
Giant rodents that are immune to swamp toxins and can gnaw through anything.
Slime molds
Acidic to the touch 
Swamp deer 
Plants; 
Snagroot
Glowcap Mushroom - When ingested, it gives the person the ability to see in the dark for a short period of time.
Deathcap Mushroom - A highly poisonous mushroom that could be used in potions or poisons.
Swamproot - A fibrous root that grows in the mud, it can be used in poultices to draw out toxins from wounds.
Swamp Lily - A flower that glows brightly and attracts insects at night. It could be used as a component in some magical spells.
Lurkroot - A plant that camouflages itself to blend in with its surroundings. It could be used to create invisibility potions.
Blackvine - A poisonous vine that grows rapidly and chokes other plants. It could be used as a trap or a poison.
Swamp Gas Mushroom - A highly explosive mushroom that could be used in bombs or traps.
Bloodthorn - A thorny plant that causes bleeding wounds. It could be used to create a potion of bloodletting or in traps.
Mudspore - A fungus that grows in the mud, it can be used in poultices to cure infections.
Quicksilver Weed - A plant that secretes a quicksilver-like substance. It could be used to create a potion of haste or in traps.
Bloodvine - a dark red vine that grows in clusters in the swamp. When soaked in water and wrapped around a weapon, it can add a poisonous effect to the blade.
Swamp Willow - a tall, slim tree with twisted branches. When its bark is mixed with a rare mineral found in the swamp, it can create a powerful oil that can be applied to weapons to give them a magical effect.
Heartleaf - a small green plant with heart-shaped leaves. When dried and ground into a powder, it can be used as a component in a spell to enhance the power of magical items.
Gloomroot - a small, black mushroom that grows in the darkest parts of the swamp. When consumed, it gives a temporary boost to dark magic spells and abilities.
Mistflower - a blue and purple flower that grows near the edges of the swamp. When crushed and added to a potion or spell, it can add a teleportation effect, allowing the user to quickly move short distances.


Noosebloom: 
Nethergloom planted the first Noosebloom after conjuring one during the height of his power
This large, pitcher plant grows a special type of snagroot which grows in the shape of a noose
When anything makes noise within 5ft of a tendril, that tendril will reach out towards the creature and attempt to tangle the creature up
If successful, the Noosebloom will slowly pull the creature in, intending to suck it into the pitcher
The plant can be avoided in several ways: 
1) By being silent 
2) Staying a good distance away
3) Spraying yourself with anything toxic to the plant
There is a giant Noosebloom at the heart of the swallowed swamp, where finley lives



